debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
2e Session , Session Session , 
volume 138 , Issue 1 
the Tuesday 12 October 1999 
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker 
table of them Contents 
trente - sixth législature Ouverture of health second session 
communication of the Secretary - Status Gouverneure générale 
transport travaux of the Senate 
nouveau Senator 
Presented 
seconde postponement 
speech of the Trône 
bill to Bill regarding Casual Railway of Railway 
first Reading 
the speech of the Trône 
Final at Act next postponement 
the committee of selection 
appointment 
the SENATE 
the Tuesday 12 October 1999 
trente - sixth législature Ouverture of health second session 
the Parliament rose been convoqué by proclamation yeas the expédition of them Affairs today today , 
health postponement is ouverte at 11 1:30 30 , the Speaker étant at the fauteuil . 
prayers . 
communication of the Secretary - Status Gouverneure générale 
his Honour the Speaker informe the Senate that he has received from the Secretary - Status Gouverneure générale Act communication suivante : 
the 8 October 1999 
dear the Speaker , 
the Secretary - Status Gouverneure générale , 
the Honourable 
the Speaker of the Senate 
transport travaux of the Senate 
the Honourable Marcel Prud man : 
honourable senators , I voudrais souligner that he not there has not to interpretation simultanée what morning . 
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin : 
honourable senators , what is exact . 
there has he moyen of pallier what lack , car composite of them stakeholders devra Robbie utiliser them two languages Languages ? 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , unfortunately , what not is not possible étant rose that bearer after - afternoon , we awakened the speech of the Trône and that foreign fauteuils not are not munis of écouteurs anguishes of transmetteurs . 
we pouvons certainly ask at all of parler streets them two languages Languages . 
the senator Nolin : 
i am loan at the make . 
nouveau Senator 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to inform the Senate that the Clerk has received from the registraire General of the Canada a certificate établissant that J . Bernard Boudreau , P , has been appelé at the Senate . 
Presented 
his Honour the Speaker informe the Senate that a senator attend at Act door yeas perhaps presented . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau , the Halifax ( Nova Scotia Nova ) presented by the Honourable B . Alasdair Grahamc.p. , and the Honourable John B . Stewart . 
his Honour the Speaker informe the Senate that the Honourable Senator susmentionné has done and signed Act statement of aptitude prescrite by Act Act BNA of 1867 , fell presence of the Clerk of the Senate , Commissioner chargé of recevoir and the attester unabated statement . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Hays , the debate is adjourned at 14 1:30 30 . ) 
seconde postponement 
health postponement is ouverte at 14 1:30 30 , the Speaker étant at the fauteuil . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
commentator we cannot awakened nothing at make , honourable senators , you plaît - he that the Senate apply ajourne at loisir fell attendant the arrival of His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale ? 
( the Senate apply ajourne at loisir . ) 
speech of the Trône 
bye 14 1:30 45 , His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale arrive streets Act Room of the Senate and prend place Act the trône . 
he plaît at His Excellency the ordonner that foreign Communes soient présentes and , health House of them Commons étant arrival , he plaît at His Excellency the ouvrir Act second session of health trente - sixth législature by the speech suivant : 
honourable senators and sénatrices , 
mesdames and Messieurs them Members , 
mesdames and Messieurs , 
i ai the honour today today to ouvrir unabated second session of health trente - sixth législature of the Canada . 
i am everything at fact consciente of them sacrifices that you êtes if nombreux at make Act them plans staff and professionnel fell acceptant them challenges that represents series charge Public . 
i sharing the commitment that you prostituted commitments and I me réjouis at Act perspective of travailler with you durant them five prochaines years at the service of the Inuvialuit Heritage . 
transport representatives of the Inuvialuit Heritage are gathered today today yeas ouvrir Act session of the Parliament who mènera the country toward the nouveau millennium . 
bye the doorstep of a nouveau century , we awakened confidence streets the future that promet the Canada at our children and at our grandchildren - child . 
health technology modifie all levels aspects of our lives . 
the savoir and health creativity constitute désormais the drives of health nouvelle economy . 
and health collaboration devient more essential at measure that foreign challenges présentés at our society pluraliste gagnent fell complexité . 
however , streets what everyone fell mutation , business Canadians and Oceans Canadiennes connaîtront the success , commentator they the acclaimed always done everything at the term of the history of our country . 
health promise that incarne the Canada is Manitoulin at series époque where them country étaient formés at the creuset of them guerres or the foreign révolutions . 
transport fondateurs of our Nation acclaimed chosen series voie who is devenue Act manner canadienne : they acclaimed created a country attaché at Act peace , at the Order and at the bon government yeas all ses citizens . 
he fingertips fallu much of vision and the volonté yeas briser the moule of the state - Nation fondé Act series language , series culture or series religion unique . 
unabated vision and unabated volonté acclaimed been widely récompensées . 
bye the origin , the Canada , fell activist that petite colonie little industrialisée , not jouait nil role which him guardian own streets them Affairs mondiales . 
bye the incorrigible of them generations , business Canadians and Oceans Canadiennes are parvenus at create a future meilleur yeas their families and their communities . 
transport Canadians and their governments acclaimed surmonté them barriers créés by Act distance and Oceans rigueurs of a climate nordique ; they acclaimed construit a chemin of Railway attain and a network of autoroutes , and created a service postal , the foreign institutions culturelles nationales , the foreign hospitals , the foreign universities and the other institutions . 
they acclaimed fell outre created a regime of security social modern . 
toutes these accomplishments constitute them guarding of our quality of life . 
fell the space of few generations , we analyzed devenus series Nation indépendante , dotée of series economy industrielle avancée , who has Senators at the chapter streets them instances internationales - Provincial Nations overseeing , the G8 , the Organization of cooperation and the development Economic , the NATO , and number of other . 
when Act tyrannie menaçait Act peace and health safety streets the world , business Canadians not acclaimed never hésité at respond at the Appeal . 
with our courageux Veterans Veterans , we ourselves souvenons of ceux and celles who acclaimed payé of their lives , that what authorized Act Act crête of Vimy , at Juno Beach , or Act lacolline 355 , fell Korea . 
heirs of health tradition of them coureurs of them wood , we awakened exploré them frontières of health science . 
the Government invention of the papier newspaper at Act creation of langages informatiques avancés , the ingéniosité of them Canadians began contributed at édifier l' ère of the information . 
thanks notamment at Act découverte of the insuline and at the Prime stimulateur cardiaque , business Canadians acclaimed licences at the foreign million for people at travers the world of vivre better more long . 
the Canada has been a pioneer of the utilisation peaceful of the space ; he is became a leader streets the field of them Communications by satellite and streets gerrymandering of health télédétection . 
today today , our astronautes utilisent Act technology canadienne yeas help at assembler Act station spatiale international , the most grandfather bill scientifique of the history . 
streets a world always more complex , the foreign approches , the foreign skills and the foreign ideas various are essentielles yeas improve Act quality of life . 
the Canada is a country bilingue where the foreign men and the foreign women of a grandfather number of crops , the races and the religions différentes participent at Act life economic , social and political . 
they puisent streets their diversity Act strength and health creativity who contribuent at façonner a country modern , tourné toward the future . 
our actions and our history Cutbacks that we ourselves sentons at the aise streets a world marqué by the change and series interdépendance always croissante . 
transport talents of our citizens , business values auxquelles we analyzed attachés and our volonté of travailler together permettront at the Canada ' maintain her role of Prime plan streets the economy of the savoir . 
today today , business Canadians and Oceans Canadiennes arresting apply enorgueillir of the success of their countries . 
our economy is dynamic , our society is damned and democratic and our fellow are solidaires them uns of them other . 
we analyzed reconnus streets the world entier yeas our quality of life . 
we bâtirons series meilleure quality of life yeas the whole of them Canadians and the foreign Canadiennes - our children , we - mêmes and our fellow . 
a CANADA FORT ET UNI 
series excellente quality of life yeas them Canadians and Oceans Canadiennes is indissociable of a Canada fort and uni . 
the government maintiendra series approach globale yeas strengthen the unity of our country . 
toutes ses actions serviront at raffermir the Canada fell rehaussant Act quality of life of them Canadians . 
our regime federal we allows the apprécier at dapper fair value what who fact Act strength of chacune of them regions of our country . 
he garantit them rights and Oceans freedoms of all levels citizens . 
he répartit Act richesse between all levels Canadians , where that they vivent , the Newfoundland - Newfoundland , streets the East , at Act British - British , streets the West , fell passant by our nouveau territory , the Nunavut , streets the North . 
bye the surveillance of them two dernières législatures , business Canadians acclaimed jeté them bases of a success still more grandfather . 
our artists , our écrivains , our musiciens and our cinéastes Cutbacks the admiration of the world entier . 
and the Canada him ? same continues to perhaps a symbol of peace , the democracy and the solidarité humaine who him vaut the respect to health community of them First . 
afin that the future prometteur of the Canada apply concrétise yeas all levels citizens , he tangibly unir our efforts yeas bâtir Act meilleure quality of life possible yeas all levels Canadians and Canadiennes . 
some pensent that he serait préférable of apply fell aller composite of his side , rather than the travailler together . 
even if them Quebecers not veulent not a third referendum , the government ' s Quebec continues to parler of fell heed a another . 
the government ' s Canada réaffirme therefore the commitment that he has commitments loyalty them Quebecers and all levels other Canadians , at savoir that the principle of clarté énoncé by Act Court Supreme of the Canada arranged respecté . 
yeas confirms , series volonté national , the foreign stratégies nationales and the foreign partnerships at the échelle of the country everything entier apply imposent . 
transport citizens and Oceans governments repositories travailler together yeas bâtir a Canada still more fort and more uni , a Canada who restera a example yeas the world entier . 
transport Canadians apply attendent at what that their government attain concentre ses efforts streets them domaines where he can and doit perhaps a agent of change . 
they veulent that he the circulation at Act manner canadienne , what is - at - say fell travaillant together , fell associant the initiative individuelle and the Action self , and fell étant at the tuned of them citizens . 
transport Canadians and Oceans Canadiennes attendent of their government that he continues at make Evidence of prudence financière , that he réduise the burden of health debt , that he diminue their taxes and that he mette fell 9uvre of them political nécessaires at the édification of series society damned . 
the nouveau market Whalers offers the immenses opportunities for create the foreign jobs yeas them Canadians and Oceans Canadiennes , the stimulate Act growth economic of the country and the accroître the influence of the Canada streets the world . 
yeas improve our quality of life , he we tangibly series strategy globale afin of accélérer the passage at the economy of the savoir , and the promote our interests and our values streets the world . 
together , we serons fell quête of the excellence . 
we devrons collaborer with our partners streets them domaines suivants afin : 
perhaps the see at the épanouissement of our children and the our young , who uncovered our leaders at the XXIe century ; 
perhaps the create series economy dynamic ; 
perhaps the improve Act health and health quality of them care yeas them Canadians ; 
perhaps the ensure Act quality of our environment ; 
perhaps the bâtir of them communities more fortes ; 
perhaps the strengthen them relations with them Peoples aboriginal of the Canada ; and 
perhaps the élargir the role of the Canada streets the world . 
transport ENFANTS ET LES JEUNES : 
our LEADERS AU XXIE SIÈCLE 
our children 
bye cause of the Evolution of the economy World , yeas jouir of series quality of life élevée , all levels country emigrate compter more than ever Act series population adaptable , déterminée and prête at pursue his learning during blunt dapper life . 
what is blocks Act tendre boyhood that the telles qualities apply acquièrent . 
nil commitment that we prenons today today not arranged therefore more important yeas Act prosperity and the course - perhaps at term term of health society canadienne that gerrymandering of invest our efforts fell favour of them very young children . 
what are them parents and Oceans families who acclaimed Act responsibility first - prendre soin of their children . 
health society blunt entière doit however 9uvrer of concert yeas that our children acquièrent them skills nécessaires at their Success . 
the government prendra of them measures which permettront at them parents of profiter of congés more longs yeas apply preoccupation of their children , fell élargissant the application of them prestations of insurance - employment at the subheading of them congés parentaux and fell them rendant more accessibles . 
he rendra more avantageuses yeas them families ses propres political fell activist that employer and celles of them employers assujettis at Act regulatory fédérale . 
thanks at the other allégements fiscaux , he permettra at them families with children of wheel more of money . 
with ses partners provinciaux and territorial , he remembered emploiera at réformer the right to health family and at strengthen them regimes of soutien at them families afin that , streets of them situations of separation or the divorce , priority authorized donnée at them needs and at them meilleurs interests of them children . 
the government federal and the foreign governments provinciaux and territorial are at allegiances at the standpoint together the Program of Action attain yeas them children . 
streets the framework of unabated démarche , our objective is the parvenir of here December 2000 at a agreed between them governments who portera Act a plan to Action attain yeas help still more them parents and Oceans families . 
what plan respectera the Entente - framework Act the union social . 
he établira of them principles , the foreign objectives and the foreign paramètres financiers communs yeas all levels governments afin of accroître them resources and the raffermir still more them measures to soutien at the development of them young children . 
yeas help them families at sortir of the cycle of health poverty , business governments federal , provinciaux and territorial acclaimed also établi Act Prestation national yeas children . 
the government ' s Canada is already fell train of invest a amount annual Supplementary of 1,7 1.1 of $ at the intent of them families at low income with children ; yeas their share , business provinces and Oceans territories investissent streets of them services complémentaires . 
the government not wants that aucune family not authorized contrainte of choose between a employment and Oceans prestations yeas ses children . 
bye unabated end , he effectuera a third investment important streets Act Prestation national yeas children of here 2002 , everything fell apply efforçant of obtaining a commitment to ses partners provinciaux and territorial afin that they accroissent their investment fell favour of them services at them families with children . 
our young 
our young are them leaders of tomorrow . 
they are already perfectly at the aise streets the world " branché " . 
they acclaimed the energy , business ideas , the savoir - make technologique , and they veulent contributing at édifier their countries at the XXIe century . 
streets a world " branché " , where them distances not existent more , business young Canadians acquièrent more earlier streets their lives them connaissances and Oceans skills whose they acclaimed need . 
the government apply emploiera at offer at our young of more grandes opportunities for participate at the experience canadienne , the découvrir them splendeurs of their countries , the run familiariser directly with each region , and the run laisser motiver by what that they auront learned of their fellow everywhere at the country . 
yeas confirms , the government prendra various measures : 
perhaps he fera Appeal at them skills of them young Canadians afin of relier them communaut rural and urbaines at the autoroute of the information , fell them embauchant yeas installer of them sites additional of access public at Internet ; 
perhaps he créera a guichet of service unique - Échanges Canada - afin of give each year ' opportunity at cent 40,000 young Canadians to fell learn Act series another region of the country ; 
perhaps he remembered assurera that foreign young Canadians and Canadiennes of 13 years and more auront Act chance to allegiances at profit their creativity and the create their premières 9uvres fell utilisant of them approches traditionnelles and the foreign techniques nouvelles streets them sectors of them Arts , the Day culture , the Day technology numérique and the other industries ; 
perhaps he incitera of them dizaines of thousands of young Canadians volunteers at participate at the foreign bills environnementaux at them niveaux originators and attain and at help to other persons at improve their level of literacy ; 
perhaps he permettra at them young Canadians to utiliser their energy and their talents outre - sea fell participant at the foreign programs internationaux of stages and fell aidant them country fell voie of developing at apply brancher Act Internet . 
the most , the government continuera at give Act priority at Act diffusion of the information at them young Canadians Act them carrières , business occasions of acquérir of the experience of work and Oceans opportunities for learning . 
series ÉCONOMIE DYNAMIQUE POUR LE XXIE SIÈCLE 
streets the economy World of the savoir , the advantage paving at them country which are innovateurs , who acclaimed of them niveaux of productivity élevés , who adoptent quickly them technologies them more récentes , who investissent streets the perfectionnement of them skills of their citizens and who recherchent of them nouveaux markets streets the world entier . 
transport Canadians acclaimed bâti series economy damned and dynamic . 
what is Act pierre angulaire of our quality of life : she allows at the Canada ' continue at édifier series society more equitable , at improve Act health of dapper population and at strengthen ses communities . 
fell the space of few years only , business finances of the state are passées of them deficits and the foreign debts at the foreign Budgets équilibrés with the faibles rate of inflation and the interest . 
til has modernisé them laws and Oceans regulations and til has reduced the role of the government streets them decisions of affairs . 
the government continuera at create a environment more propice at Act growth economic and at the improvement of health productivity , fell réduisant the burden of health debt , fell abaissant them taxes and fell faisant of them investment strategic . 
these investment aideront them small businesses at croître , encourageront the trade , aideront them citizens at parfaire them habilités whose they acclaimed need and assureront that the Canada authorized doté of series infrastructure modern . 
the government is résolu at pursue series policy of management financière prudente . 
more never he not permettra that the snakes perde the control of them finances of the state . 
he fera fell sorte that royal debt diminue constamment by report at the product intérieur gross . 
he respectera the commitment commitments at the beginning of unabated législature of consacrer Act half of the surplus budgétaire at the remboursement of health debt and at the allégement of them taxes , and the another half at them investment destinés at respond at them needs Cultural and Economic of them Canadians . 
health reduction of them taxes is a élément essentiel of series strategy visant at accroître them incomes of them particuliers and at bâtir series economy garante of health growth and the Day richesse who permettent them investment publics and Woodlot nécessaires yeas maintain series quality of life élevée . 
streets his next budget , the government présentera a plan pluriannuel of réductions additionnelles of them taxes . 
increase the foreign échanges trading and the foreign investment 
the all levels grands country industrialized , what is the Canada who has the economy Act more ouverte Act the world . 
we awakened Act chance to perhaps a country whose health population is composée of people who viennent of everywhere streets the world . 
transport markets étrangers offrent of nouveaux débouchés yeas our biens and our services . 
the investment abroad we apporte of them capitaux , the foreign ideas and the foreign technologies nouvelles and the foreign practices commerciales innovatrices . 
yeas profiter of the advantage of the Canada , the government intensifiera ses efforts of promotion of the trade streets them sectors strategic offrant of them opportunities for export élevées - Request them sectors allant of health biotechnologie and the foreign technologies of the Environment and the Government information , at the tourism , at Act culture and at Act health . 
he continuera also the soutenir the innovation and the development of nouvelles technologies streets them summarizing sectors of export reassess that the Agriculture , the agroalimentaire and Oceans resources Natural . 
he mettra Act foot the Team Canada Investissement , who permettra at all levels governments and at the sector private of coordonner their efforts yeas sensibiliser davantage Act community international at them opportunities exceptionnelles of investment and the growth at the Canada . 
the government modernisera the framework législatif Present yeas facilitate the installation of them seats Cultural of them businesses multinationales at the Canada . 
the most , the government travaillera with ses partners of the hemisphere afin of établir of here 2005 Act Zone of free - Exchange Program them Americas . 
skills and savoir nécessaires at the XXIe century 
series population active qualifiée and health ability to innover continuellement are them pierres of assise of the success of our economy at the XXIe century . 
bye the surveillance of them three dernières years , the government has établi series strategy destinée at exploiter the advantage that represents yeas the Canada series main - d' 9uvre who is Act more instruite at the world . 
he has facilité the épargne - studies yeas them children . 
he rendra them studies collégiales and academic more abordables thanks at them scholarships to studies Forces - Government millennium . 
he has allégé the mechanism of remboursement of them debts étudiantes and amélioré them measures fiscales relatives at the funding for the learning continu . 
we adhere at us appuyer Act unabated strategy . 
the government Heritage formera of them partnerships with them other governments , business agencies publics and Woodlot analyzed that with them Canadians and Oceans Canadiennes , afin of établir a plan to Action attain fell matière of skills and the learning yeas the XXIe century . 
what plan mettra the accent Act the learning continu , run attaquera at the problem of health low literacy chez them adults and fournira at them citizens the information whose they acclaimed need yeas prendre of them decisions éclairées fell standpoint of parfaire their skills . 
bye the surveillance of them two prochaines years , the government travaillera with ses partners afin of : 
perhaps permettre at them Canadians to financer more aisément the learning continu ; and 
perhaps fournir of them information at the échelle of the Canada Act them markets of the work , business skills nécessaires and Oceans opportunities for Training at partir of a guichet unique , accessible by Internet , by telephone , or fell human streets toutes them communities of the country . 
the government mettra also the accent Act the recrutement , the maintien fell station and the learning Standing at Act function Public of the Canada , afin that she remains damned , représentative , professionnelle , non partisan and capable of fournir at them Canadians and at them Canadiennes them services of health later upper quality at the orée of the XXIe century . 
the infrastructure of the XXIe century 
yeas réaliser bearer objective , he faudra create the nouveaux types of infrastructure . 
the infrastructure of the savoir 
yeas improve his infrastructure of the savoir , the Canada doit appuyer series nouvelle generation of leaders , attirer them researchers them more qualifiés and encourage ses graduates at exercer their talents here at the country . 
the government présentera a bill to Bill permettant Act creation of them instituts Airports of research fell health . 
ceux - ci ouvriront Act voie at the foreign travaux of calibre Whalers at the Canada , car they réuniront yeas Act first once every them researchers of the sector of health health , streets the but the define the foreign priorities Commons yeas Act research . 
unabated approach innovatrice recognizes the importance of health collaboration streets the field of health research yeas improve Act health and the course - perhaps the foreign Canadians , and édifier a regime of care of health of very grande quality . 
the government ' s Canada is since the nombreuses years the one of them summarizing soutiens of health research streets them universities Forces . 
since both years , the government dictatorship a ambitieux program visant at better appuyer Act research of sunrise at the Canada . 
yeas what make , he : 
perhaps accroîtra his soutien at them advice subventionnaires , their permettant of établir of nouveaux partnerships with them universities afin of attirer them meilleurs researchers of the world streets the framework of a program innovateur , business chaires of excellence fell research of the XXIe century ; 
perhaps encouragera them universities and Oceans instituts of research of the Canada at intensifier Act collaboration international fell matière of research and at accroître the savoir - make Heritage streets of them sectors commentator Act génomique , business changes climatiques and the génie avancé ; and 
perhaps facilitera Act marketing of them nouveaux products and services overburdened at the standpoint thanks at the foreign travaux of research streets them universities and Oceans centres of research gouvernementaux . 
the government veillera also at what that he ait series ability modern and effective fell matière of research and the science at the Breast of the administration Public , yeas promote Act health , health safety and the course - perhaps economic of them Canadians . 
the infrastructure of the information 
yeas appuyer Act circulation of them ideas and Oceans échanges trading streets of them networks informatiques , yeas brancher them Canadians at the autoroute of the information and accélérer the implantation of the trade électronique , the Canada devra improve his infrastructure of the information . 
bye unabated end , the government : 
perhaps prendra of them measures yeas make the Government Canada a centre of excellence fell trade électronique and encourage his utilisation streets the whole of the economy ; 
perhaps présentera at nouveau a bill to Bill visant at protect them information personnels and trading streets them networks électroniques and at reconnaître them signatures électroniques ; and 
the government deviendra a utilisateur model of them technologies of the information and the Internet . 
we ourselves servirons of a bill pilote fell surveillance yeas make the Government site www . acces . ca 
the economy of the savoir not is not the simple product of them businesses of upper technology . 
what is series economy streets laquelle all levels sectors and toutes them industries apply efforcent of utiliser them technologies and Oceans procédés of sunrise . 
fell effect , unabated economy allows the give more of stability against foreign cycles of the market at the foreign regions , rural mostly , where them industries basées Act them resources - agriculture , fisheries , foresterie , mines , tourism - are them sources principales of health richesse . 
the government encouragera Act implementation at the standpoint and the adoption of nouvelles technologies streets all levels sectors . 
the infrastructure culturelle 
health strength of the Canada trouve racine streets dapper rich diversity . 
Écrivains , chanteurs , comédiens , cinéastes and artists donnent life at our culture during that the other consignent our history and guarding our heritage culturel . 
he mettra fell line them collections of them Archives nationales , the Day Library national and the other établissements clés . 
the infrastructure matérielle 
the Canada devra fell outre continue at improve his infrastructure matérielle at the XXIe century . 
afin of intensifier the trade and the stimulate Act growth economic , we devons we ensure that we awakened Act ability to transporter them persons and Oceans biens of way sécuritaire and effective . 
yeas maintain Act quality of life streets our cities and our communaut rural , we devons préserver Act pureté of the air and the Government water . 
the government travaillera of concert with them other ordres of government and the sector private yeas convenir - Request here Act end of the 2000 2000 - Request a plan quinquennal visant at improve them infrastructures matérielles streets them zones urbaines and streets them regions rural of the country . 
health SANTÉ ET LES SOINS STATEMENTS QUALITÉ POUR LES CANADIENS 
health health and the foreign care of quality are essentiels at the course - perhaps the all levels Canadians and Canadiennes ; they constitute the one of our grands atouts streets the context Present of health mondialisation of them markets . 
transport progress réalisés streets them domaines of health technology , the Day research and the Government information we ouvrent of nouvelles perspectives extraordinaires yeas improve Act health and the course - perhaps the foreign citizens . 
transport Canadians apply attendent at what that their governments travaillent of concert yeas ensure that the system of health of the Canada remains modern and viable . 
the government has recently confirmed his commitment at the hook of the regime of care of health fell investissant 11,5 billion to $ of more yeas the modernize fell standpoint of the XXIe century . 
he continuera at aller of the prior with ses partners provinciaux and territorial and the sector of health health yeas make avancer them priorities Commons . 
with ses partners , the government appuiera Act implementation at the épreuve of innovations fell matière of Benefit intégrée of them services , notamment streets of them domaines reassess them care at domicile and the EI - médicaments , streets the but the établir a system of health whose toutes them composantes fonctionneront of way harmonieuse . 
a system modern of information sur la health donnera at them professionals of health health and at them citizens the access at them information them more at day Act them enjeux of the hour and based them traitements existants . 
the government veillera at what that foreign citizens of toutes them regions of the country aient access at unabated information yeas that they prennent of them decisions better éclairées . 
the government protégera Act health of them Canadians fell renforçant his program of salubrité of them foods , fell prenant of them measures additionnelles yeas régler them problems of health liés at the Environment , there inclus them risks sanitaires éventuels that présentent them pesticides , and fell modernisant Act protection of health health fell General streets a world fell evolution . 
we adhere fell outre at And them graves problems of health streets them communaut aboriginal and we appuierons them efforts of these dernières visant at promote their well - perhaps and at strengthen Act Benefit - Provincial services of health . 
health QUALITÉ STATEMENTS NOTRE ENVIRONNEMENT 
the course - perhaps at term term of each Quebecer and Canadienne Act the Mifflin Housing and economic depends of the état of the Environment naturel . 
our ability to adopt the foreign practices and the foreign technologies environnementales innovatrices deviendra of more fell more a another atout of taille yeas the Canada at the XXIe century . 
transport Canadians reconnaissent since long them links which existent between a environment sain and their quality of life . 
the foreign citizens Airports and the foreign companies exemplaires apply efforcent already , at the Breast of their propres communaut , the protect the milieu naturel fell repoussant them limits of them technologies environnementales , fell élargissant them perspectives ouvertes by celles - ci and fell exploitant them nouvelles practices écologiques . 
health quality of the Environment streets our communities is also liée at the état of the Environment of them other communities of the world . 
Gotcha series intervention concertée at the échelle World permettra of régler them problems commentator them changes climatiques and Oceans dangers associés at Act presence streets the Environment of substances toxiques rémanentes . 
bye the Canada , the government travaillera with them other ordres of government and with them citizens yeas adhere the commitment that has commitments our country , fell vertu of the Protocole of Kyoto , the reduce them emissions of gas at 2:30 of greenhouse . 
the government définira and appliquera of them standards antipollution sévères , fell particular yeas better protect Act health of them children , the foreign persons seniors and the foreign residents of the North . 
he mettra still more the accent Act the development sustainable streets the framework of ses process of decision . 
he remembered attaquera also at them faiblesses structurelles décelées streets the system of management of them substances toxiques . 
based Act scène international , the Canada fournira a appui technical yeas help them country fell development at adopt the foreign practices viables . 
the government proposera of them bills of Bill and the foreign programs of management , collaborant with them provinces and Oceans territories yeas veiller at what that foreign cash menacées and Oceans habitats whose thin acclaimed need soient protected . 
the government continuera also the élargir the network of parks nationaux of the Canada . 
streets ses propres activities , the government apply posera commentator model of excellence environnementale . 
he agira davantage yeas dépolluer them sites fédéraux contaminés . 
he renforcera dapper ability scientifique of research streets the sector of the Environment . 
he explorera also the nouvelles technologies of dépollution . 
the government présentera of them reports réguliers Act them results atteints yeas respond at them grandes concerns environnementales of them Canadians and the foreign Canadiennes . 
des COLLECTIVITÉS PLUS FORTES 
travailler together 
the everything time , business Canadians acclaimed su apply entraider afin of profiter of them occasions who faces offraient at eux and the relever them challenges . 
bearer commitment at travailler together - commitments by foreign Canadians , their governments and their communaut - paving permettre at the Canada ' continue at réussir opposite at them enjeux complex of the XXIe century . 
she commits also them governments at éliminer them barriers who entravent of way non justifiée Act mobility of them citizens at the intérieur of the Canada . 
these barriers incluent them rules which Cutbacks that certaines qualifications not are not reconnues when a citizen apply installe streets series another province , that the foreign students not arresting utiliser their loans when they étudient at the outside of their province , and that the foreign services essentiels are sometimes refusés at some citizens - including inclus ceux who acclaimed of them handicaps - fell reason for their province of origin . 
the government ' s Canada is résolu at travailler with ses partners yeas adhere them échéances établies streets the Entente - framework Act the union social , fell vertu desquelles all levels barriers injustifiés at Act mobility uncovered éliminés at the most later fell 2002 . 
fell 2001 , business Canadians and Oceans Canadiennes souligneront the Année international of them volunteers , fell célébrant them accomplishments of these heroes of our lives quotidienne . 
the government recognizes that he regardless of établir of them partnerships with them communaut and the renouveler dapper relationship with them agencies volunteers who them aident and Oceans soutiennent . 
he conclura a agreed attain with the sector Volunteer , jetant analyzed them bases nouvelles of a partnership dynamic with the foreign organizations who are at the service of them Canadians and the foreign Canadiennes . 
yeas perhaps fortes , business communaut repositories power compter Act Act pleine participation of all their membership . 
the government poursuivra therefore ses efforts auprès of them other governments , the Government sector private , the foreign agencies volunteers and the all levels citizens yeas bâtir of them communaut at the Breast desquelles uncovered fully inclus them Canadians rose to them handicaps , and where them nouveaux Canadians apply sentiront chez eux . 
fell outre , the government continuera at travailler of concert with ses partners streets all levels sectors yeas apply attaquer at them causes profondes at the origin of health situation of them without - abri and yeas help them communities at respond at them needs of their membership , between other fell matière of housing . 
promoting the foreign communaut more sûres 
transport Canadians are at fair title fiers of wheel created the foreign communities where them citizens apply sentent fell security . 
he remembered notional of a élément clé of health quality of life and the one factor who contributes at the advantage competitive of the Canada . 
the government collaborera with them Canadians yeas that our communaut demeurent sûres . 
he travaillera of manner équilibrée , fell combinant of series share series approach axée Act Act prevention and the Action originators and , the another share , the foreign measures destinées at combattre Act criminalité grave . 
he élargira Act strategy originators of prevention of the crime , and présentera at nouveau a bill to Bill yeas réformer the system of justice yeas them young . 
the government luttera against the trafic of them stupéfiants everything fell aidant them communaut at assister them victims . 
he lancera a program of justice restorative who aidera them victims at apply equation of their traumatismes and donnera at them délinquants non violent the opportunity to contributing at réparer them torts that they acclaimed causés . 
the government apply attachera at contrer them nouvelles threats who planent Act them Canadians and based their neighbours streets the world . 
he poursuivra dapper lutte against Act criminalité , who faces practice of more fell more at the échelle World , whose the blanchiment of money , the terrorism and Oceans networks criminals of Immigration illégale , health smuggling of them stupéfiants and the foreign weapons . 
the government renforcera them afford whose disposent Act RCMP and the other agencies yeas lutter against foreign threats at Act security Public at the Canada and collaborer with them agencies competent of other countries . 
he modernisera fell outre them laws yeas better ensure Act security Public . 
the most , the government ' s Canada continuera at travailler étroitement with the government ' Affairs States - U.S. yeas modernize our border commune fell standpoint of the XXIe century . 
strengthen LES RELATIONS AVEC LES PEUPLES AUTOCHTONES OF CANADA 
health contribution to them Peoples aboriginal of the Canada has modelé our heritage and continuera of enrichir our country at the surveillance of the next century . 
the government continuera of apply appuyer Act Act solide basic of reconciliation and the renouveau définie streets Rassembler our forces : the Mifflin Plan Action of the Canada yeas them questions aboriginal . 
we édifions now the foreign partnerships more solides with them Autochtones , fell concentrant our efforts Act the improvement of their conditions of life and , the most fell more , based on renforcement of their economies . 
transport Peoples aboriginal uncovered therefore fell measure of participate and the contributing more étroitement at the development economic of the Canada and at the course - perhaps the Day society . 
the fact of promote the principle of bon government and the imputabilité streets them communaut of them First Nations augmentera Act confidence of them investors , appuiera them partnerships Economic and améliorera them conditions of life . 
transport ententes of settlement of them claims territoriales , fell particular , are the foreign elements essentiels yeas engendrer Act certainty whose business Autochtones and Oceans communities avoisinantes acclaimed need ; thin créent a climate propice at them partnerships , at them investment and at Act growth economic . 
bye the beginning of health nouvelle session of the Parliament , the government présentera a bill to Bill mettant fell 9uvre the agreement historic with them Nisga' has . 
health PLACE OF CANADA DANS LE MONDE 
bye the aube of the XXIe century , the Canada is well placé yeas montrer Act voie who dictatorship at a world more course . 
transport Canadians acclaimed today today Act meilleure quality of life at the world because that they apply are occupés of them needs of them individus . 
we possédons the experience voulue yeas allegiances of the prior a program amélioré visant Act security humaine streets the but the protect them populations civiles against foreign threats who planent Act their rights , their safety and their lives . 
based Act scène international , we awakened Act reputation of apporter series contribution unique , that what authorized thanks at our apport at the Elimination of them mines shore , at them efforts of the NATO and the foreign Nations overseeing at the Kosovo , at the assistance at the development fell Asia and fell Africa , at Act creation of the Tribunal pénal international or at the renewal of the system financier international . 
transport Canadians and Oceans Canadiennes reconnaissent that their quality of life is fell part tributaire of celle of their neighbours , ceux with which they partagent Act planet . 
a world where them persons are fell security is a world where less of people acclaimed at fuir their foyer , where he rereads has less of crime and the terrorism , and where he rereads has less of risks associés at Act illness and at Act pollution . 
the government accordera series importance accrue at Act security humaine streets dapper policy étrangère and he 9uvrera yeas that foreign instances mondiales réalisent of them progress véritables streets the framework of series démarche international yeas Act security humaine . 
the Assembly générale of them Nations overseeing tiendra fell 2001 series session extraordinary Convey Act them children . 
streets the spirit of the partnership who has mené at the treaty historic of ban the foreign mines shore , the government travaillera fell standpoint of adopt the foreign ententes internationales clés yeas protect them rights of them children . 
the Canada apply fera the champion of them efforts visant at Abolish the exploitation of them children , notamment fell what who pertains their utilisation commentator soldiers lors of conflits armés , and aidera at make opposite at the drame of them children victims of the VIH and the Government AIDS . 
the government agira fell outre of concert with the foreign country partageant them mêmes visions yeas réformer and strengthen the foreign institutions multilatérales commentator them Nations overseeing , the Fund Monetary international , health Bank World and the Organization World of the trade . 
he remembered appliquera also at define series nouvelle approach international yeas appuyer Act diversity culturelle streets the world . 
yeas confirm the leadership of the Canada streets the Arctique , the government esquissera series policy étrangère yeas the North visant at improve Act cooperation , protect the Environment , favoriser the trade and the investment and appuyer Act security of them residents of health region . 
the government accroîtra his assistance international at the development and travaillera of way créatrice yeas help them country poor at improve Act quality of life of their citizens . 
the government continuera also the veiller at what that foreign Forces Forces soient fell measure of appuyer the role of the Canada yeas contributing at Act security streets the world and he remembered efforcera of accroître Act ability to them Canadians and the foreign Canadiennes of help at ensure Act peace and health safety streets of them country étrangers . 
remplir LA PROMESSE OF CANADA POUR LE XXIE SIÈCLE 
bye the moment of celebrate the avènement of the nouveau millennium , we pouvons regarder our past with pride and envisager the future with confidence . 
bye the instar of them generations who we acclaimed précédés , we ferons opposite at the nouveaux challenges . 
but thanks at our values and at our experience collective , we pouvons make fell sorte that the Canada remains the meilleur country of the world yeas ses residents - Government instead ideal yeas élever of them children , learn , exploiter them opportunities , run join at the foreign communaut riches , diversifiées and sécuritaires and admirer Act beauty of health nature . 
all levels Canadians - each citizen , each government , each congruent and each body originators - acclaimed a role at play yeas ensure the future of the Canada . 
we bâtirons the XXIe century together . 
mesdames and Messieurs them Members , 
you serez appelés at voter them appropriation nécessaires yeas financer them services and Oceans Estimates approuvés by the Parliament . 
honourable senators and sénatrices , 
mesdames and Messieurs them Members , 
fell activist that representatives of health population canadienne of a océan at the another , you prostituted a duty Special , series responsibility more grande of pursue the excellence at the service of your country . 
he tangibly that foreign Canadians and Oceans Canadiennes of tomorrow puissent say , fell considérant the présent Parliament , that he remembered composait of men and the women déterminés at bâtir a Canada more fort and series meilleure quality of life yeas their children and their grandchildren - child . 
puisse Act Divine Providence you guider streets vos deliberations . 
health House of them Commons withdrew withdrew . 
he plaît at His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale of apply withdraw . 
the Senate reprend dapper postponement . 
bill to Bill regarding Casual Railway of Railway 
first Reading 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) présente the bill to Bill S - 1 , Act regarding Casual Railway of Railway . 
( the bill to Bill is read series first once . ) 
the speech of the Trône 
Final at Act next postponement 
his Honour the Speaker : 
the foreign Senators : 
suffit ! 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when what speech arranged he overburdened at the study ? 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) move : 
that the speech of the Trône that His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale has prononcé today today appeared them two Houses of the Parliament authorized overburdened at the study at Act next postponement of the Senate . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
the committee of selection 
appointment 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) move : 
that , pursuant at the paragraph 85 ( 1 ) the Government Rules , business senators Atkins , Austin , DeWare , Fairbairn , Grafstein , Kinsella , Kirby , Mercier and Murray forment a committee of selection chargé of désigner has ) a senator who assumera Act Ruling at title of Speaker pro tempore ; and b ) Senators senators who uncovered members of them various committees particuliers during Act présente session . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the Honourable Marcel Prud man : 
nay . 
( Act motion is adoptée with dissidence . ) 
( the Senate apply ajourne at 14 hours tomorrow . ) 
debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
2e Session , Session Session , 
volume 138 , Issue 2 
the Wednesday 13 October 1999 
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker 
table of them Contents 
health Gouverneure générale 
impression fell Printed of them allocutions prononcées lors of the installation 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau , P 
tributes at the opportunity to dapper appointment at the Senate 
STATEMENTS STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
health week without violence of health YWCA 
the Senate 
congratulations at the staff yeas the bon work of preparedness of the installation of health Gouverneure générale and the Day Reading - Government speech of the Trône 
the Agriculture 
the hemp industriel - Comments barriers at the export toward them States - U.S. 
questions of privilege 
visitors of Gallery 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
the committee of selection 
Presented of the Prime report 
Presented of the second report 
bill to Bill facilitant Act prise of certaines decisions médicales 
first Reading 
transport and Communications 
notice of Motion Convey referred at the committee of the décret commitments fell vertu of health Act Act them transport at the Canada yeas autoriser Act tenue of discussions Act Act proposal of achat of Air Canada by the sector private 
routine Foreign 
notice of Motion Convey Authorized at the committee of examiner Act Modified apportée at the mandate of the Organization of the Traité of the Atlantic North 
the Sommet of health Francophonie 
notice of inquiry 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
health Corporation - development of the Cape - Cape 
health possibility of bills yeas help them miners at Camera them conditions of admissibilité at the Program of encouragement at Act retirement anticipée - Possibility Position of the government 
the Environment 
health Nova Scotia Nova Scotia Position responsibility to health décontamination of them sites of déchets toxiques 
health defence national 
transport transport 
transport principles of the payment by foreign pollueurs , the Day prevention of health pollution and the Government eliminating progressive of them products chemical toxiques - Possibility Position of the government 
the Agriculture 
the effectiveness of them programs visant at help them farmers 
routine ÉTRANGÈRES 
notice of Motion visant at autoriser the committee at And them consequences of the Union Monetary European 
orders OF THE 
the speech of the Trône 
motion of Adopted of the Adresse fell response - Ajournementdu debate 
the adjournment 
questions of privilege 
decision to the Speaker 
referred at the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure 
decision to the Speaker 
referred at the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure 
the SENATE 
the Wednesday 13 October 1999 
health postponement is ouverte at 14 hours , the Speaker étant at the fauteuil . 
prayers . 
impression fell Printed of them allocutions prononcées lors of the installation 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I move : 
that the allocution of the Prime Minister of the Canada , the very hon. Jean Chr , P , prononcée lors of the installation of health very hon. Adrienne Clarkson commentator Gouverneure générale of the Canada ' 7 October 1999 , and health response to His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale at unabated allocution soient imprimées fell Printed at them Journals of the Senate to what day and constitute part intégrante of them archives of unabated House . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
( the text of them allocutions consigned at the Printed , 555 
37 ( 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau , P 
tributes at the opportunity to dapper appointment at the Senate 
the Honourable B . Alasdair Graham : 
honourable senators , the 11 June 1997 , I ai been assermenté at the Council private of the Canada fell quality of Leader of the government at the Senate . 
i ai déclaré what day - là that mon objective Prime guardian of make the necessary yeas that I sois remplacé at Act first opportunity . 
fell fact , I ai officially déclaré that I étais without doubt Act Gotcha human at the cabinet federal who ferait of them efforts yeas quitter his employment . 
i cannot organize not much of political who puissent apply targuer of wheel atteint their objective and accompli their task fell half less of time that he not fell tangibly . 
the senator Boudreau is non only a ami staff to attest date , what is also a ami of health family since the nombreuses years . 
analyzed , when Bernie apply is presented at Act course at Act direction of our party fell Nova Scotia Nova , what is a result condolences son who guardian his steering of campaign . 
bye the surveillance of them two dernières years , the senator Boudreau and Jack acclaimed been associés at the Breast of the same cabinet of lawyers . 
honourable senators , I me request apply he serait exagéré of say that , là where the son has échoué , the father has succeeded , the way enough détournée , tangibly - he the specifying , at make progresser Act career policy of the senator Boudreau . 
however , the senator Boudreau is everything at fact capable of express his own standpoint of standpoint and the run make valoir . 
activist streets them sectors private that public , he has su gagner the respect to nombreux Canadians to health Nova Scotia Nova or the elsewhere . 
before and after his séjour at the Assembly legislative of health Nova Scotia Nova , the senator Boudreau apply is démarqué streets Act practice of the right at Sydney and at Halifax . 
fell quality of Minister of them Finance and , ultérieurement , the minister of health Health , he has constaté Act necessity , commentator what is the case streets Act totalité of them provinces and the Government country , the prendre of them decisions very difficiles . 
senator Boudreau , you finirez by understand , commentator what fut mon case , that what is a grandfather honour and a rare privilege of sit at the Breast of the cabinet and the discuss freely of them questions brûlantes of actualité , that thin soient of Order régional , attain or international . 
toutes these discussions laisseront filtrer our préoccupation commune at the hook of the course - perhaps the Day population of our Nova Scotia Nova well - aimée . 
fell quality of Minister régional , you aurez at relever of nombreux challenges and , streets what context analyzed that streets the framework of toutes them other matters that you devrez aborder commentator Leader of the government at the Senate , you pourrez compter Act mon entière collaboration . 
you constaterez that siègent streets unabated House some of them penseurs them more remarquables and the foreign parliamentarians them more dévoués at the world . 
i ai been at same of constater that , streets the framework of them challenges that they acclaimed at relever , our colleagues mettent at profit from them qualities very particulières , the foreign experiences uniques fell their kind , the foreign carrières réussies and series magnificent Ethics of the work . 
bye mon notice , they partagent them feelings of Edward Blake , a former MP who has said he rereads has more of a century streets a speech prononcé at Act House of them Commons : 
transport privileges of the Parliament are them privileges of the Inuvialuit , business rights of the Parliament are them rights of the Inuvialuit . 
bye Act veille of a nouveau century , these paroles we rappellent series tradition whose we awakened inherited - series tradition inchangée at what day - and a privilege that very little of between us awakened Act chance to posséder . 
what is the magnificent privilege of serve Act population . 
what that we cynicism here , we the cynicism yeas them residents of our province , the our region and the our country . 
bye the surveillance of them vingt - seven years that I ai passées at the Senate , all levels bills of Bill who acclaimed been modifiés the acclaimed been by necessity and they acclaimed therefore been analyzed améliorés . 
toutes them studies which acclaimed been businesses acclaimed apporté something something of Special at the foreign segments of our society . 
what is a privilege yeas we to you compter streets our rangs , and still series once , we you souhaitons Act more cordiale of them bienvenues . 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I me fais always a plaisir of accueillir at the name of the Opposition a nouveau Senator , but I the fais always fell présumant that we allons all bénéficier of the experience and the Day training of the nouveau venu until at what that the age of health retirement obligatoire the strength at partir . 
the senator Boudreau is the Prime Senator who , before same of wheel been assermenté , ait announced that royal durée of his séjour Incidence we cannot arranged not more attest that what that he remains the Government mandate of the government Present . 
voilà who me place streets a dilemma . 
i veux souhaiter at the senator Boudreau a term and fructueux séjour here , but fell same time , I hope , commentator much of other , that the time that the government Present restera at the power arranged also court that possible . 
fell reality , I me plais at penser that after few months only , the senator constatera that the work accompli here is more productif and less partisan that at the another place and that he voudra can - perhaps well réexaminer dapper decision to apply rétrograder when business prochaines election uncovered déclenchées . 
odyssey the time the dira . 
between - time , he accepte a challenge difficult , who the is became still davantage at cause of the model établi by Hon. prédécesseur immédiat , whose the urbanité and health civility not acclaimed never been autant mises at the épreuve and confirmées that lors of them derniers days and streets his intervention of today today . 
today today , I me contenterai of souhaiter at the senator Boudreau Act meilleure of them chances streets ses nouvelles duties , and I the brevity of the choice of his Leader Deputy . 
the senator Hays jouit of the respect General of them senators ' Affairs two sides of health House and apporte at ses nouvelles duties 15 years of participation active at them travaux of the Senate . 
STATEMENTS STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
health week without violence of health YWCA 
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs : 
honourable senators , I interviens today today yeas you consigned that royal week next , the Government 17 at the 23 October , run tiendra Act Week without violence of health YWCA . 
he remembered notional of series campaign international who has the thanking been implementation Act foot by Act YWCA at them States - U.S. fell 1995 , but who faces is fast étendue at more of 20 country , whose the Canada , the Australia , the Ghana , the Uruguay and the Zimbabwe . 
the Prime objective of health campaign is the find the foreign solutions at toutes them forms of violence . 
bye the surveillance of health Week without violence , business YWCA and Oceans YMCA - YWCA of toutes them communities at the Canada , the concert with them schools , business forces relegates , business groups communautaires and Oceans sponsors , organiseront various activities populaires yeas encourage foreign Canadians at find the foreign solutions at Act violence at laquelle they Cutbacks opposite quotidiennement . 
each day to health week is dédié at a thème particular rose trait at Act violence . 
the 18 October , parents and children apprendront how avoid them situations of violence . 
the 19 October , til apply penchera Act them afford to tribute our schools more sécuritaires . 
the Wednesday 20 October , til étudiera how make opposite at Act violence loyalty them women . 
the Thursday 21 October Act YWCA sensibilisera all levels Canadians at them repercussions of health colère , the Government stress and the foreign agressions streets Act life of them men and based their relationship . 
the Friday 22 October , til attirera the attention Act the racism and Oceans crimes motivés by Act haine , and based their link with Act violence . 
finally , the Saturday 23 October , til verra how substitute Act violence by the foreign activities positives , telles that the sport , business loisirs and Oceans Arts . 
honourable senators , I you invite all and composite at prendre share at these activities . 
the Senate 
congratulations at the staff yeas the bon work of preparedness of the installation of health Gouverneure générale and the Day Reading - Government speech of the Trône 
the Honourable Bill Rompkey : 
honourable senators , the Senate has recently been Act scène of two events very importants streets Act life of our country . 
i ai attended several once at the reassess events , but they not apply étaient never déroulés also well . 
what guardian Act first once that she officiait at a tel événement and I am the notice that she there has shirts dapper Gallery . 
by Hon. entremise , I voudrais also tribute tribute at ses employees who , with ceux of the Senate , laughed worked later streets Act focuses yeas see at all levels details and apply ensure that everyone apply déroule of series manner also excellente . 
the Agriculture 
the hemp industriel - Comments barriers at the export toward them States - U.S. 
the Honourable Lorna Milne : 
honourable senators , I prends today today Act parole afin of attirer the attention of the Senate Act Act situation at laquelle are currently confrontées series society and series jeune industry Forces . 
Kenex Limited , at Chatham , fell Ontario , is fell train of devenir the one of them more grands producers and transformateurs of hemp industriel . 
however , the Administration of them customs and the Day repression of them drogues of them States - U.S. has recently overburdened confirms fell péril . 
i ai commitments conscience of the problem after wheel wrote fell September at several of condolences contacts streets the sector of the hemp industriel , afin of me enquérir Act them crops of unabated year . 
health response that I ai reçue of health share of Jean Laprise , President of Kenex , not has not been celle that I souhaitais . 
Koppel . Laprise me has apporté series assistance considérable when I ai began at me preoccupation of the bill to Bill Act the hemp industriel . 
he me is Robbie apparu obvious that the market validate constituait series good reason yeas that til autorise Act culture of the hemp industriel at the Canada . 
well that the market validate yeas them products of hemp gross and fini authorized very important , business States - U.S. acclaimed long interdit Act culture of the hemp industriel , the sorte that , during the foreign years , the market has dépendu of them importations of the abroad . 
recently , several States acclaimed adopted the foreign laws encourageant Act culture of the hemp industriel - whose Hawaii , the Dakota of the North and the Minnesota . 
series once that a producteur prend series share of the market , he has trend at conserver bearer advantage initial ; he appartient therefore at our producers Airports of prendre and the conserver their share of market before that foreign Americans not apply the approprient . 
the market validate represents 95p. cent of the figure of affairs of Kenex . 
the one of ses clients , series society whose the figure of affairs is the 2,500 billion to $ by 2000 , utilise since the foreign years of them seeds of hemp provenant of China yeas ses mélanges . 
the chargement of seeds yeas oiseaux that Kenex has expédié fell August at unabated society has been saisi by foreign customs américaines . 
what chargement guardian accompagné of documents confirmant dapper stérilisation and the analysis of them THC . 
transport seeds yeas oiseaux are the foreign " seeds of hemp stérilisées " , who never are not series substance réglementée , damned that authorized their seams fell THC . 
transport seeds of hemp of Kenex are everything at fact légales at them yeux of health law canadienne . 
thin contiennent less of 0,001p. cent , or series part by cent 40,000 , the THC . 
health law canadienne autorise until at 0,3p. cent of THC streets them seeds stérilisées . 
Koppel . Laprise has déclaré : 
he is impossible to find the foreign footsteps of THC streets our products at least that the laboratory not authorized équipé yeas effectuer of them tests of presence of THC until at series part by million , and still là , til not can find the foreign footsteps of THC streets Act plupart of our products . 
Cynthia H . Thielen , députée of the state of Hawaii at Act House of them representatives , has officially apporté his appui at Kenex Limited and has critiqué openly Act participation of the Administration américaine of health repression of them drogues at Act saisie of them products of Kenex . 
honourable senators , I believe savoir that the Department of them Foreign Foreign and the Government Commerce international apply penche Act the file and I vais suivre of close his evolution . 
i hope that we aurons very soon of bonnes nouvelles at announce at them farmers Airports . 
questions of privilege 
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk : 
honourable senators , pursuant at the paragraph 43 ( 7 ) the Government Rules of the Senate to the Canada , I gives today today notice that I soulèverai series question of privilege at the topic of health divulgation non autorisée of ébauches of a report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Peoples aboriginal . 
you noterez that unabated question of privilege has been soulevée at Act dernière session . 
according Act decision rendue by our Speaker , the affair capitalists perhaps renvoyée at the committee Standing of them privileges and the Government Rules . 
i Act raises the nouveau at Act subsequently of health prorogation and I widow the aborder at the moment opportun . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I raises series question of privilege who has trait at them experiences vécues by a witness who has comparu appeared a result our committees permanents . 
bye the moment opportun more later streets Act journée , pursuant auparagraphe 43 ( 7 ) the Government Rules , I traiterai fell detail of unabated affair . 
visitors of Gallery 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I attire your attention Act Act presence at Act gallery of series delegation of health Republic popular democratic of Korea . 
Koppel . Cha Jong is Opposition of office at the Institute of them Affairs internationales , Rand Li Song Man is chercheur at the Institute of them Affairs internationales , etM. Ri Kwang Nam is Prime Secretary at Act mission permanente of health Republic popular democratic of Korea at them Nations Nations . 
health delegation is the hôte of the Honourable Senator Marcel Prud man , P 
bye the name of all levels honourable senators , I you souhaite la welcome at the Senate Heritage . 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
the committee of selection 
Presented of the Prime report 
the Honourable Léonce Mercier , President of the Comité of selection , présente the report suivant : 
the Wednesday 13 October 1999 
the Comité of selection has the honour to introduce his 
prime REPORT 
pursuant at the article 85 ( 1 ) b ) the Government Rules of the Senate , your committee présente Act list of them senators that he has désignés yeas make part of the committee particular suivant : 
COMITÉ PERMANENT PERIOD TRANSPORTS ET PERIOD COMMUNICATIONS 
transport honourable senators Adams , Bacon , * Boudreau ( either Hays ) , Callbeck , Finestone , Forrestall , Johnson , Kirby , LeBreton , * Lynch - Staunton ( either Kinsella ( , Perrault , Poulin , Roberge and Spivak . 
* member of office 
respectfully submitted , 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when étudierons - we what report ? 
the senator Mercier : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate , I move that the report authorized adopted blocks now . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
you plaît - he ' adopt Act motion , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
nay . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Mercier , the study of the report is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement of the Senate . ) 
Presented of the second report 
the Honourable Léonce Mercier , President of the Comité of selection , présente the report suivant : 
the Wednesday 13 October 1999 
the Comité of selection has the honour to introduce his 
DEUXIÈME REPORT 
pursuant at the article 85 ( 1 ) b ) the Government Rules of the Senate your committee présente Act list of them senators that he has désignés yeas make part of the committee particular suivant : 
COMITÉ PERMANENT PERIOD AFFAIRES ÉTRANGÈRES 
transport honourable senators Andreychuk , Atkins , Bolduc , * Boudreau ( either Hays ) , Carney , Corbin , De Ban , Nino Nino , Grafstein , Lewis , Losier - Cool , * Lynch - Staunton ( either Kinsella ( , Stewart and Stollery . 
* member of office 
respectfully submitted , 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when étudierons - we what report ? 
the senator Mercier : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate , I move that the report authorized adopted blocks now . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
you plaît - he ' adopt Act motion , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
nay . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Mercier , the study of the report is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement of the Senate . ) 
bill to Bill facilitant Act prise of certaines decisions médicales 
first Reading 
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs présente the bill to Bill S - 2 , Act facilitant Act prise of decisions médicales legitimate relatively at them traitements of survival and at the treatment of health douleur . 
( the bill to Bill is read series first once . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series second once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Carstairs , health second lecturedu bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to the mardi26 October 1999 . ) 
transport and Communications 
notice of Motion Convey referred at the committee of the décret commitments fell vertu of health Act Act them transport at the Canada yeas autoriser Act tenue of discussions Act Act proposal of achat of Air Canada by the sector private 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I move : 
that , pursuant at the paragraph 47 ( 5 ) the Day Act Act them transport at the Canada , the décret tabled appeared unabated House , the 14 September 1999 , autorisant some carriers aériens majeurs and certaines persons at negotiate and at conclude blunt entente conditionnelle , authorized déféré at the committee sénatorial Standing of them transport and the foreign Communications ; 
that the committee entende , between other witnesses , the minister of them Transport ; 
that the committee authorized authorized at permettre Act diffusion électronique of ses deliberations translated ; and 
that the committee présente his report final at the pus tardle 15 December 1999 . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I think that he rereads has a problem . 
fell effect , the committee not is not yet constitué puisque the Senate not has not yet rose his Authorized . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
he remembered notional only to a notice . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
i me fell remets at you , honourable senators . 
health leave is - she granted ? 
the senator Hays : 
your Honour , what is a notice regarding series motion whose we traiterons at Act next postponement of the Senate . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , run he remembered notional of a notice regarding series motion whose we traiterons at Act next postponement , the approval of the Senate not is not necessary . 
routine Foreign 
notice of Motion Convey Authorized at the committee of examiner Act Modified apportée at the mandate of the Organization of the Traité of the Atlantic North 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that at Act next postponement , I proposerai : 
that the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign authorized authorized at examiner yeas fell make report them ramifications yeas the Canada : 
2 . - Government maintien of health peace , mostly Act ability to the Canada ' there participate Subcommittee them auspices of not regardless breaching body international whose the Canada done part . 
that foreign mémoires reçus and Oceans testimony entendus Act Act question by the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign durant Act first session of health trente - sixth législature soient déférés at the committee ; 
that the committee authorized authorized at sit during Senators sittings and Oceans congés of the Senate ; 
that the committee authorized authorized at permettre Act diffusion électronique of ses deliberations translated ; and 
that the committee présente his report final at the most tardle 18 November 1999 . 
the Sommet of health Francophonie 
notice of inquiry 
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that the 21 October next , I attirerai the attention of the Senate Act the récent Sommet of health Francophonie tenu at Moncton fell September last . 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
health Corporation - development of the Cape - Cape 
health possibility of bills yeas help them miners at Camera them conditions of admissibilité at the Program of encouragement at Act retirement anticipée - Possibility Position of the government 
the Honourable John Buchanan : 
honourable senators , before the poser ma question , I voudrais souhaiter Act welcome at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
health life is strange . 
health dernière once that I ai sat streets series House with the senator Boudreau , I occupais the seat fell opposite of the sien . 
i étais assis of the side of health part self fell activist that Prime Minister and he guardian of the side of the Opposition . 
i am pleased that we ourselves retrouvions streets Act same position , except that foreign rôles are renversés . 
i account well travailler with the Honourable Senator during the longues years . 
he is possible that he authorized to what side - là during few years , but after them prochaines election fédérales , what arranged moi who siégerai of what side - là and him to what side - ci . 
i am a man very sympathique , and the Honourable Senator Boudreau the knows . 
i voudrais poser at the Leader of the government at the Senate series question Act a topic who him tient at heart and who me tient at heart since the nombreuses years . 
confirms has trait at Act Corporation - development of the Cape - Cape , health Devco . 
i know that the Honourable Senator travaillera also fort that the senator Graham yeas defend Act Devco , the Government less I the hope . 
ma question apply rapporte at Act situation at Act mine of coal of Phalen . 
til is fell train of démonter Act line of ceinture and Oceans niveaux inférieurs of health mine . 
transport miners espèrent that royal section Superior of health mine of Phalen not arranged not touchée , car til there trouve still approximately 7,5 million for tonnes of coal whose between 5 and 6 million for tonnes of coal récupérable streets them sectors 1A west , 2A west , 1QZ , 2QZ , analyzed that 1Y and 2Y . 
health United Mine Workers of America and Oceans other syndicats représentés at Act Devco espèrent that the government federal jugera bon of them laisser exploiter Act mine at the surveillance of them prochaines years , afin that foreign miners puissent travailler a number suffisant of years yeas wheel right at their pension at Act end of health period of two years . 
otherwise , health mine arranged fermée and Oceans workers not auront not right at their pension . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate abordera he , blocks that possible , unabated question with the Prime Minister , afin that foreign miners puissent continue to travailler at Act mine of coal of Phalen and the exploiter these 5 at 6 million for tonnes of coal récupérable ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I thank the senator yeas dapper question . 
commentator the Honourable Senator we the has if well reminded , we awakened already lived series situation similar , except that I posais them questions and that he fournissait them answers . 
the senator Buchanan : 
what is exact , and you obteniez always Act good response . 
the senator Boudreau : 
the Honourable Senator trouvera can - perhaps Act situation actuelle more pleasant . 
before the respond at Act question of the Honourable Senator , I voudrais 209 them observations faites everything at the hour . 
what is with much of humilité that I ai accepted them responsibilities who me acclaimed been confiées , the autant more than mon prédécesseur them has assumées of way remarkable . 
i widow of elsewhere the fell thank at the name of the Senate and the Day population of the Canada . 
honourable senators , I ai also been very hits by foreign mots of welcome and Oceans advice that me has prodigués the Opposition of the Opposition , who me has proposed , between other , the reconsidérer Act durée of mon séjour at unabated vénérable institution that is the Senate . 
i him observance that , at what topic , he has the appui total of mon wife . 
fell response at Act question posée by the Honourable Senator Buchanan , I répondrai that royal Devco arranged at the centre of condolences concerns during blunt Act durée of mon mandate Present . 
we connaissons all sides the file since series period considérable . 
he fact currently the objet of series démarche fell two étapes . 
health first BNA at find series solution hon. yeas them resources Resources who travaillent streets what sector since the nombreuses years . 
unabated question revêt series grande importance non only yeas these people , but also yeas all levels senators and yeas the government ' s Canada . 
the another phase , well course , BNA at favoriser the development economic yeas help Act collectivité at apply adapt at Act transition fell surveillance . 
human not knows better than the senator who has posé Act question that he remembered notional là of series profonde transition between series economy industrielle who is tributaire of a unique employer and series economy post - industrielle . 
series telle transition not is never easy . 
fell what who pertains Act question proprement dite , I transmettrai évidemment unabated préoccupation . 
i dirai however that royal démarche who VI at transférer them resources at a exploitant of the sector private is fell surveillance . 
everyone the world seems apply hear yeas say that he remembered agira of health meilleure way of remédier at Act situation . 
if them resources houillères arresting perhaps récupérées and exploitées surely , efficacement and économiquement , I am certain that the Insignia exploitant of the sector private étudiera Act proposal very seriously . 
the senator Buchanan : 
honourable senators , I cannot parlerai not to health privatization . 
i ai ma own opinion at bearer regard . 
the problem that posent them 5 at 6 million for tonnes of coal récupérable , what is that , if health direction of Devco persiste at supprimer Act line of ceinture until at them sections supérieures of health houillère Phalen and au - delà , he risk of Welfare too later yeas that a exploitant of the sector private puisse extraire what coal . 
if a exploitant of the sector private parvient at the make , what is very well , but he faudra Robbie that foreign miners who feront what work at the surveillance of them two prochaines years puissent perhaps always admissibles at them prestations of retirement . 
commentator the Honourable Senator the knows , with Act closure of health mine Phalen , a grandfather number of miners not are not including streets Act formula regarding the program of encouragement at Act retirement anticipée . 
health mine Phalen has fermé before that person cannot ait envisagé dapper closure and what is the problem which we occupies currently . 
i voudrais also interroger the senator at the topic of them something 1 160 miners who uncovered touchés by Act closure of health mine Phalen . 
the process of évincement has already begun with Act houillère Prince . 
transport men who acclaimed been déplacés when Act mine Phalen has fermé and ceux who faces occupent of the maintenance of unabated mine acclaimed évincé them workers of health houillère Prince , whose approximately 250 acclaimed received their notice of implementation at foot . 
when til ajoute these men - ci at them other , confirms fact something 1 per miners who never toucheront aucune Benefit - retirement , there including ceux who acclaimed 20 years of ancienneté , but who never are not suffisamment âgés yeas wheel 75 points . 
i trouve confirms very unfair and what is what that trouvent also the chairman and Oceans members of the executive of health United Mine Workers . 
he tangibly find a moyen yeas tribute these people - là admissibles at the Program of encouragement at Act retirement anticipée . 
a bill is possible and what serait very simple . 
the foreign senators not ignorent not that series enormous SOWIND of dépollution apply ombudsman at Act Devco . 
health same something vaut yeas Act Sydney Steel Corporation , run he remembered product something something là - bas . 
the nettoyage at Act Devco coûtera approximately 150 million for $ . 
what program is considéré at the hour actuelle commentator at damned densité non not to main - d' 9uvre , but the equipment . 
i request at the nouveau Minister of aborder Act question the most earlier possible with the Prime Minister . 
authorized said fell passant , at the surveillance of health campaign électorale provinciale fell Nova Scotia Nova , the Prime Minister has adressé series letter at Ms Edna Budden and at them women of them miners their disant that he demanderait at them officials of the Department of examiner all levels aspects of the Program of encouragement at Act retirement anticipée . 
i ignore apply he the has done , but confirms doit perhaps fact yeas that these men not soient not everyone simply laissés yeas account . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , commentator not the ignore not the senator , the program lancé by the government has been doublement hits by Act closure premature of health mine . 
the thanking , the foreign people who auraient strokes right at the Program of encouragement at Act retirement anticipée , because that they specialist atteint the ancienneté necessary , not acclaimed not avoided there wheel access at cause of health closure premature of celle - ci . 
they acclaimed lost the time additionnel whose they specialist need yeas apply qualifier and acclaimed therefore been touchés very directly . 
ensuite , the program has also been hits because that royal society comptait Act the Income who aurait been généré by the exploitation of health mine yeas unabated period . 
bye cause of these two consequences of health closure premature of health mine , the government has estimé necessary to examiner the program which Partnerships been proposed he rereads has something time at them miners and at their families . 
bearer review is always fell surveillance . 
i ai good confidence that we pourrons make something something yeas improve Act situation , fell particular yeas them groups whose we venons of parler and who acclaimed been directly touchés by Act closure premature of health mine . 
i hope that the Prime Minister and Oceans ministers intéressés pourront find series solution at unabated affair . 
i transmettrai certes your interest and vos observations also well that foreign miens . 
the Environment 
health Nova Scotia Nova Scotia Position responsibility to health décontamination of them sites of déchets toxiques 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
honourable senators , if the minister is incapable of respond at Act question suivante , perhaps - perhaps could - he we communiquer series statement précise streets a or two days . 
damned is at the fair Act Position of the government ' s Canada at the topic of health responsibility to health décontamination of them sites miniers fell exploitation or abandonnés who are now the Hon. ressort at the Cape - Cape ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I me ferai a plaisir of consult condolences colleagues on the Council private and the give at the senator series response précise . 
i ai the impression that , commentator what is the case yeas of other companies of State , health responsibility fell matière environnementale not disparaîtra not . 
commentator he is fort little probable that a acheteur assume unabated responsibility , he seems that she we reviendra . 
health defence national 
health Nova Scotia Nova Scotia Le funding for the nettoyage of them dégâts causés by foreign inondations streets the comté of Cumberland 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
honourable senators , I tiens moi also at congratulate the nouveau Leader of dapper appointment . 
commentator he has been Minister of them Finance at the level dd , he knows that he not is not easy to find the foreign fund yeas them urgences . 
ma question pertains the comté of Cumberland , fell Nova Scotia Nova , who has been recently ravagé by the foreign inondations . 
four bridges acclaimed been emportés and four Imposition acclaimed been abîmées at the standpoint of Welfare irréparables . 
commentator the minister ' knows , health Nova Scotia Nova request series assistance fédérale yeas couvrir of them dégâts of more de3 million for $ . 
the minister aurait - he the obligeance of us say quelles measures he is disposé at prendre yeas that soient débloqués them fund nécessaires at Act réparation of these dégâts streets the comté of Cumberland ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I believe that unabated request apply adresserait at the minister of health Défense national . 
i believe understand , the afternoon what that the senator has said , that royal province has solemn asked to the assistance . 
bye mon notice , health response devra apply inscrire streets the context of a program federal existant , but I donnerai more of details at the senator blocks that I aurai obtenu of other informations at what topic . 
transport transport 
health Nova Scotia Nova Scotia Position possibility of a bill to infrastructures yeas Act réfection of health road 101 
the Honourable Marjory LeBreton : 
honourable senators , I widow , moi also , souhaiter Act welcome at the nouveau Leader of the government at the Senate . 
and the genus " mauvaise management scandaleuse fell matière of fishery " . 
honourable senators , business paroles that I viens of prononcer are celles of nul another that the former prime minister Liberal of the Brunswick - Brunswick , Frank McKenna , telles that citées streets the Globe Mail Mail of the 5 October 1999 . 
he has said ensuite : 
the bilan of the government is still less reluisant today today that he not the guardian at the époque of them election ( fell 1997 ) ... 
what that foreign ( Canadians to the Atlantic ) veulent , health Gotcha something that they demandent and acclaimed always demandée at the government federal , what is series vision , a geste montrant that he recognizes the problem and series lueur of espoir [ ... ] . 
that has done the government yeas régler these graves problems ? 
he has composed 911 and asked the senator Bernie Boudreau . 
Robbie , parlons of thanking of health Nova Scotia Nova . 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
he remembered notional of health road 101 fell Nova Scotia Nova , who has been the théâtre of a exodus carnage and health cause of nombreux Late . 
fell dapper quality of Minister responsible for health Nova Scotia Nova , that entend make the Leader of the government yeas remédier at unabated deplorable situation ? 
is - he loan at apply engager and at promettre that his government paving consacrer a bill to infrastructure federal at Act reconstruction and at Act réfection of them sections potentiellement meurtrières of laroute 101 ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I me demandais when these paroles deM. McKenna petitioners ramenées Act the tapis . 
i me réjouis of the fact that , streets the speech of the Trône presented yesterday , he authorized question of way very spectaculaire and effective of health vision that he évoquait . 
the foreign pourparlers are currently fell surveillance with the minister of them Transport relatively at them infrastructures routières . 
streets the speech of the Trône , he is question of them infrastructures physiques traditionnelles and the celles streets the field of them Communications . 
i trouve confirms encourageant . 
confirms apply inscrira perfectly streets the Mifflin Plan the government federal , Robbie that royal Nova Scotia Nova apply apprête at entrer streets the nouveau millennium . 
i discuterai certainly the Day question with the minister . 
the senator LeBreton : 
honourable senators , the Leader of the government at the Senate sharing he the notice exprimé by the ex - Prime Minister McKenna ? 
bon number of ceux who acclaimed already emprunté unabated road savent of whereupon he is question . 
he remembered notional of a tronçon routier extremely dangerous , commentator he fell existe of elsewhere streets of other regions of our country . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , the senator me request if I sharing the notice deM. McKenna who , the surcroît , has already been mon associé streets a cabinet of lawyers . 
i cannot surprendrai not the Honourable Senator fell him disant that , based what standpoint , I cannot am not to agree avecM. McKenna . 
what is indéniable that royal prosperity générale who has been créée streets our country is almost without precedent . 
the gouverneur of health Bank of the Canada estimated that royal growth of our economy at the surveillance of them four derniers trimestres is Superior at 4p. cent , what who never apply is never seen . 
gold , despite unabated growth remarkable , our rate of inflation rest conforme at them objectives fixés - what who constitue a exploit exceptionnel . 
certes , bearer exploit not apply is not concrétisé also streets toutes them regions of our country . 
Koppel . McKenna voulait can - perhaps make ressortir Act situation of way flamboyante . 
i dois however say at them honourable senators that at well - Provincial gloomy of the Canada Atlantic , business data Act Act creation of jobs and the unemployment montrent clearly that royal prosperity apply is étendue . 
she never is perhaps - perhaps not also importante that we the souhaiterions and not apply can - perhaps not done sentir everywhere , but we continuons of déployer of them efforts fell what sense . 
we espérons that , what faisant , we pourrons compter Act the appui deM. McKenna . 
by elsewhere , I organize very well Act road fell question . 
i the ai empruntée at maintes occasions . 
the network routier Main of health Nova Scotia Nova , who has notamment bénéficié of the funding for the government federal , is fell enough bon état , even apply he not is not perfect everywhere . 
he we tangibly reconnaître the role that the senator Buchanan has played at bearer regard . 
health province of health Nova Scotia Nova possède a bon network routier , but I the répète , he not is however not perfect . 
the Honourable Senator has spoke of series road which nécessite of them improvements . 
i cannot doubt not that the minister of them Transport discute of health issue with his homologue dd fell unabated matière . 
the Environment 
health Nova Scotia Nova Scotia Le nettoyage of them étangs bitumeux of Sydney 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse also at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
he fingertips noticed without doubt that our premières questions yeas the allegiances at the épreuve portent Act Act region that he connaît the better . 
i cannot ferai not to commentaires Act his habilité at esquiver them questions that we him awakened posées until at now . 
number of condolences friends environnementalistes travaillent of arrache - foot since long yeas attirer the attention of the government Act unabated question . 
fell fact , Rand Don Deleskie , a particular , has same fact Act grève of health hunger . 
he has , the most , sparked of décontaminer them étangs at the assistance to series simple pelle . 
before that the minister réponde at Act question , I voudrais him say that , recently , the Senate has passed a bill to Bill ministériel who never traite anguishes of the enlèvement anguishes of health production of products chemical toxiques dangerous commentator them PCB who faces trouvent streets what instead tainted . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I thank Mrs. the senator ' dapper question . 
fell fact , I thank all levels senators ' poser of them questions Act series region that I organize enough well . 
i organize well Act question of them étangs bitumeux of Sydney . 
streets the past , he rereads has strokes of them tentatives of décontamination of them étangs bitumeux . 
certaines of between thin acclaimed coûté very cher and not acclaimed not rose to bons results . 
til has dépensé much of money yeas not obtain that the minces results . 
transport two ordres of government , damned that authorized their affiliation policy , laughed unsuccessfully of impose the foreign solutions at Act collectivité . 
these tentatives acclaimed also échoué . 
however , unabated once - ci , streets the framework of unabated importante initiative , the government federal , with the assistance to the government dd , consacre something 62 million for $ yeas amorcer what who , we the espérons , should perhaps the regulation définitif of what problem . 
however , account tenu of the experience of the past , experience who never guardian not very plaisante or productive , he has been decided to make participate Act collectivité at Act research of series solution at what problem . 
health solution Proposed venait of health community . 
the problem with unabated way of make what is that celle - ci exige of the time . 
he is much more rapide of impose series solution that the chercher at obtain a consensus at the Breast of health collectivité . 
by conséquent , a group Joint composed of representatives of various sectors of health community has been overburdened Act foot . 
the government federal has participated at a program , conjointement with the government dd , and ceux - ci apply are engagés at fournir 62 million for $ , whose 70p. cent provenait of the federal . 
a commitment important has been commitments . 
the group Joint is based on standpoint of finishing Act first phase of his work and he hope that the foreign measures correctives pourront perhaps prises the most quickly possible . 
confirms vaut Act peine of souligner what consensus at the Breast of health community . 
i ai seen the foreign case where the snakes has opté yeas the another solution and Oceans results obtenus not acclaimed not been very palatable . 
transport principles of the payment by foreign pollueurs , the Day prevention of health pollution and the Government eliminating progressive of them products chemical toxiques - Possibility Position of the government 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
honourable senators , a consensus at the Breast of health community is series something merveilleuse . 
however , streets what case - ci Act responsibility to what who faces is produced not can certainly not perhaps imputée at Act collectivité . 
what is Act company which has shirts a gâchis . 
account tenu of the bill to Bill that we venons of adopt , the Leader of the government supports he personally them principles according lesquels the pollueur doit payer and , mostly , the Elimination progressive of health fabrication , the Day production and the Government utilisation of reassess products chemical toxiques , afin that streets the future we cannot soyons more confrontés at what problem ? 
fell passant , til has lost activist of time with them solutions imposées by the government and without consensus local that the little of time that he particulars yeas parvenir at what consensus not is not a topic of préoccupation . 
i query wheel series idea of the opinion of the minister of health Nova Scotia Nova , Leader of the government at the Senate , based them principles very importants of the pollueur - payeur , the Day prevention of health pollution and , more important still , the Government eliminating progressive of the usage and the Day production of health plupart of them products chemical toxiques . 
til complements fair to découvrir that foreign Whalers at the large of health British - British acclaimed a rate very élevé of BPC streets their body , what who is attribuable at Act production and at the utilisation of nombreux products chemical . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , health participation locale and the atteinte of a consensus local acclaimed been demandés at them two ordres of government by Act collectivité . 
the government apply is rendu at these requêtes . 
what is a process very valable and necessary , even apply he ralentit a little them progress Act the terrain . 
yeas what who is the Government another question soulevée by the Honourable Senator , I dirai that he has fallu cent years yeas constituer the étang of goudron . 
til not laisserait not series telle pollution apply accumuler today today . 
i cannot ai nil standpoint of désaccord majeur with what that has said : hon. Senator . 
i query well discuss the what topic more fell depth with she , but nothing to what that she has said never me offusque particularly . 
we cannot devons never permettre that series telle situation apply répète . 
the senator Spivak : 
honourable senators , I am heureuse of constater that the Leader of the government at the Senate convient at the least with us that he tangibly éliminer progressivement Act fabrication of health plupart of them products chemical toxiques . 
merci yeas unabated statement very éclairante . 
the Agriculture 
the effectiveness of them programs visant at help them farmers 
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson : 
honourable senators , I souhaite moi also Act welcome at the nouveau Leader of the government at the Senate and I him souhaite everything the success possible . 
ma question door Act a topic that he connaît well . 
transport farmers to health Nova Scotia Nova acclaimed subi three years of sécheresse . 
the program that the government has overburdened Act foot not them has not aidés . 
he paie at them farmers 70p. cent of health average of their incomes of them three dernières years . 
honourable senators , 70p. cent of nothing , what is zéro . 
the Leader of the government is - he at the courant of dictatorship ? 
streets the affirmative , that fera he at bearer regard ? 
i veux also him consigned Act situation fell Saskatchewan , fell Alberta and at the Manitoba . 
transport farmers are here at Ottawa since three days . 
they familiar series situation of Crisis at the Canada . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate transmettra he what message at the cabinet and insistera he Act the character urgent of the problem of envergure national auquel our country is confronté streets some sectors of the industry Farm ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I know that the senator Gustafson complements of health Saskatchewan . Le months last , I ai strokes the opportunity to me tribute at Regina at title of member of the council of directors of health Bank of the Canada , function that I occupais at the époque . 
lors of unabated visit , we awakened been overburdened at the courant of health situation of the Agriculture streets them Prairies by foreign leaders of the sector Farm and by the foreign economists . 
even if I cannot comprends évidemment not also well Act situation that the senator , I am when same fell measure of understanding them difficulties which existent and the desire to them farmers to wheel of them rules of the stake équitables . 
transport governments federal and provinciaux acclaimed fourni series assistance Supplementary of 1.5 1.1 of $ at them farmers streets the framework of the Program of assistance fell case of catastrophe liée at the Income Farm . 
series part of health difficulty tient at the fact that , until at what day , only 190 million for $ acclaimed been versés at them farmers . 
however , at Act end of the year , we prévoyons that foreign versements atteindront 550 million for $ . 
the pace paving apply accélérer and he is at espérer that the problem évoqué by the senator apply atténuera something little . 
the senator Gustafson : 
honourable senators , I thank the minister of dapper response . 
the problem , what is that the program ACRA not works not . 
health formula not is not good , commentator the savent them senators ' Affairs two sides of health House who viennent of them Prairies and the Day Nova Scotia Nova . 
she never works everything simply not because that she apply fonde Act 70p. cent of the Income moyen of them three dernières years . 
the farmer who has connu three mauvaises years of subsequently is really fell difficulty . 
the program not apply déclenchera not streets his case . 
what is là a result them summarizing problems . 
the government doit répartir them appropriation prévus of way at what that the snakes puisse there wheel access . 
what is là a topic of préoccupation attain . 
the country not can apply permettre of losing ses farmers . 
til we took said yesterday evening that the 30 40,000 at 40 40,000 farmers palatable make bankruptcy . 
the problem revêt series telle emergency that he appelle series intervention immediate . 
the foreign groupements professionals agricultural acclaimed cherché at rejoindre the Prime Minister . 
the Prime Minister Trudeau not guardian not Act human health later aimée streets the West , commentator the minister ' knows , but he remembered is rendu at Regina , fell Saskatchewan . Il apply is tenu streets them marches menant at the assemblée legislative , and Oceans farmers not the acclaimed not very well treaty . 
they him acclaimed lancé of the Wheat at Act consigned . 
however , he remembered is solemn presented . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate fingertips he the obligeance of say at the Prime Minister that foreign farmers veulent that he remembered prononce Act Act situation streets the field Farm ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , he me fera plaisir of transmettre what message at the name of the senator Gustafson . 
routine ÉTRANGÈRES 
notice of Motion visant at autoriser the committee at And them consequences of the Union Monetary European 
leave rose been granted to revert at them notice of Motion to the government : 
the Honourable John B . Stewart : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 14 October 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign authorized authorized at And and at make report Act them consequences yeas the Canada ' s émergence of the Union Monetary European and based on other subjects connexes fell matière of Commerce and the investment ; 
that foreign mémoires reçus and Oceans testimony entendus Act Act question by the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign durant Act first session of health trente - sixth législature soient déférés at the committee ; 
that the committee présente his report final at the most tardle 15 December 1999 ; and that the committee conserve them powers nécessaires at Act diffusion of them results of his study content streets his report final and what until at the 24 December 1999 ; and 
that the committee authorized authorized , nonobstant them practices habituelles , at déposer his report auprès of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that ledit report authorized réputé wheel been tabled at the Senate . 
orders OF THE 
the speech of the Trône 
motion of Adopted of the Adresse fell response - Ajournementdu debate 
the Senate proceeded at the study of the speech that His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale of the Canada has prononcé at the opening of health trente - sixth législature . 
the Honourable Richard H . Kroft , supported by the Honourable Senator Furey , moved : 
that the Adresse whose the text suit authorized présentée at His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale of the Canada : 
bye his Excellency Act very hon. Adrienne Clarkson , Chancelière and Compagnon Main of the Ordre of the Canada , Chancelière and Commandeur of the Ordre of the Mérite military , Gouverneure générale and Commandante fell Opposition of the Canada . 
QU' IL PLAISE bye VOTRE EXCELLENCE : 
we , subjects very dévoués and fidèles of Majesty Majesty , the Senate to the Canada , assemblés fell Parliament , prions respectfully Your Excellency the agréer our humbles remerciements yeas the gracieux speech that Elle has adressé at them two Houses of the Parliament . 
essentiels at the framework of proposals that she has présentées streets his speech , what who rend bon number of between thin possibles fell fact , are them excédents , actuels and anticipés , enregistrés streets them comptes of the Canada . 
til is loin of health painful bataille menée against the indebtedness grandissant who , he not there has not if long still , we privait of opportunities , bouleversait our priorities and assombrissait our future . 
thanks at the sacrifice consenti by all levels Canadians and thanks at Act determination and at the excellente management of our government , we voilà confrontés at them choice very différents certes , but ô combien exaltants of savoir toward quels domaines orienter them resources accrues of health population canadienne . 
we savons all that he existe Incidence the grandfather public , business media and our propres parties political of nombreuses ideas , the nombreux dreams , the nombreuses priorities and the nombreuses façons différentes of parvenir at them mêmes objectives . 
he incombe at our government ' écouter everything the world carefully , the make ses propres studies and Evaluations and , finalement , the decide to a plan to Action . 
what is the afternoon the Mifflin Plan Action that he remembered arranged fixé and the effectiveness of his exécution that he arranged jugé . 
the most , what is the Day quality of ses decisions and the ses actions that dépendra the course - perhaps the Government Canada and the foreign Canadians . 
health Gouverneure générale has spoke of them orientations that the government has the intent of prendre and the foreign doors who arresting now apply ouvrir - Request them doors apply ouvrant at the Canada Act a future meilleur and more interesting yeas them premières generations of Canadians to the next millennium . 
these doors indiquent " Entrée " , and non " Sortie " . 
thin apply ouvrent Act to them débouchés , and non Act to them murs . 
thin are the access at the foreign foyers sûrs , at the education , at Act research , at the foreign jobs productifs and gratifiants . 
health Gouverneure générale has indiqué what that the Canada apply move the make yeas them Canadians at the surveillance of them years at venir and has explained why our country estimated that these objectives are importants . 
today today , honourable senators , I query you toucher a word of health way whose I takers our country - Request his past , the Hon. présent and certainly the Hon. future , tel that I the conçois . 
what is yeas moi a honour and a grandfather plaisir of power prendre Act parole fell response at the speech of the Trône . 
commentator I viens of announce that I allais you make share of mon optique personnelle , he is important that I Act situe with soin . 
since mon arrival at the Senate , I comprends better the exodus sense of these expressions ; Robbie permettez - moi of you describe Act manner - or rather them manières - whose I perçois our country . 
he rereads has everything of thanking series question of géographie , laquelle is cruciale . 
i vis at the centre of the Canada . 
even if unabated statement can choquer bon number of persons streets unabated city , and the nombreuses other at Toronto , what is néanmoins true . 
the centre - city of Winnipeg not is that at 20 minutes of the centre longitudinal of the Canada . 
what not is not only series singularité géographique , what is also series reality significative . 
confirms signifie that he rereads has two fuseaux horaires at the west and two and half - voire three - at the is . 
confirms signifie that royal half west of our province reflects the immense richesse and health grande beauty of them Prairies tandis that celle apply trouvant at the is is solidement ancrée streets the Bouclier Heritage . 
til not can vivre where I vis , between Act Saskatchewan and the Ontario , without wheel of the country series perception différente of celles that fell acclaimed of them persons less favorisées . 
honourable senators , I me hasten of you rassurer of crainte that you not confondiez our situation géographique with the isolement or the insularité . 
our links Cultural and linguistic with the Quebec are solidement enracinés streets Act community franco - manitobaine établie at Saint - Boniface . 
durant blunt the history of the Canada , she has been the genus of them two communaut of language and the culture françaises them more importantes at the outside of the Quebec . 
our institutions culturelles - Request them sectors of the théâtre , the Government ballet and the Day music - run are acquis series Fame international and are enracinées streets a rich mixture of groups ethniques . 
our world of them Affairs , bâti fell more of a century of Commerce international of products of basic and now rich of the apport of them nouvelles technologies , is a result them more ouverts Act the outside . 
we considérons the world entier commentator our market naturel . 
our producers , marchands and négociants admits since long Act reality of health mondialisation who their réussit well . 
health place to the Manitoba streets the world has can - perhaps trouvé his illustration Act more éclatante streets them Games panaméricains remarquablement réussis who faces are referendums chez we the summer last . 
what fut the événement the most important to the kind of blunt the history of the Canada and the third fell importance at apply perhaps tenu where that what authorized streets the world . 
nothing not aurait better su we explain at the Canada and at the world entier . 
honourable senators , even if I seems prêcher yeas ma paroisse fell faisant these dernières observations , what not guardian not mon intention . 
i tenais simply at remind that the Manitoba and Winnipeg are the foreign elements dynamiques of the Canada Present , the where he is important to observer and the 209 them grandes questions who faces posent . 
quoique without malice , unabated impression , if she never is not remise fell question , risk of mener at series regrettable incompréhension of the country , the ses needs and the ses opportunities . 
our Fathers of health Confederation acclaimed including what danger and acclaimed conçu the Senate to manner at ensure series representation équilibrée of toutes them regions . 
ceux of between us who never venons not to grands centres of population awakened the duty and health responsibility to parler firmly and often , activist at the Senate that at them committees , the telle sorte that all levels Canadians apply fassent hear . 
i interviens also today today commentator member of series generation fell particular , what who conditionne fondamentalement mon standpoint of standpoint . 
i am born at the aube of health Seconde Guerre World , the sorte that some events and certaines ideas of unabated époque and the foreign years who acclaimed immediately suivi are always fees at ma memory . 
i ai fact condolences studies mostly streets them fantastiques years 50 , decade whose til has done the least the case streets what century . 
i ai sparked condolences premières activities political fair at the moment where Lester Pearson prenait Act direction of the Party Liberal of the Canada . 
the elsewhere , what is at the surveillance of series soirée passée fell company deM. Pearson , Robbie Opposition of the Opposition , and the one petit group at Winnipeg , toward Act end of them years 50 , that I me am engagé yeas Act life loyalty the Party Liberal . 
i ai of thanking worked commentator fonctionnaire Act Act colline at Ottawa , during queM. Pearson guardian Prime Minister . 
incidemment , I cannot dispel me prevent the souligner that , even apply he has been Opposition of the government during at peine five years and apply he not has never dirigé a government majoritaire , Rand Pearson has changed and enrichi the Canada yeas always . 
fell faisant unabated statement , I think at them grands programs Cultural that wouldn and his government we acclaimed donnés . 
confirms said , he me is arrivé the another day still the penser that he is well difficult to conceive the Canada fell 1999 without our flag distinctif . 
yeas well - Provincial Canadians , bearer acte of pure volonté policy and the pride yeas the Canada Gallery l' ère Pearson . 
i ai also been witness the Government émergence deM. Trudeau and the foreign débuts of his remarkable leadership . 
Ottawa guardian became a pôle of attraction yeas them young men and Oceans young women , pleins of energy and the ideas , who croyaient that everyone guardian possible and that the Canada guardian the place where what guardian réalisable . 
nil of ceux - and he rereads fell has several streets unabated enceinte today today ? who étaient here at unabated époque and who acclaimed partagé them experiences of these years nor rereads never them forget and , who more is , not has never since connu series telle effervescence streets our country . 
he rereads has series something fondamentale that we awakened apprise Robbie : not never Subcommittee - estimer the Canada and not never , at the grandfather never , Subcommittee - estimer the importance and health puissance of the idea of the Canada yeas them Canadians and yeas them people of the world entier . 
honourable senators , run he is a souvenir that I Custody of them years 1966 at 1969 , what is the remarkable sentiment of optimism who faces dégageait of everywhere and who imprégnait everything a composite . 
Expo 67 guardian the expression spectaculaire and fascinante of health confidence of the Canada fell se and streets dapper place streets the world . 
bye Act reflection , I me rends now account the Government power enormous of a tel sentiment of trust and the optimism analyzed that the Day source incredible of energy that he can perhaps yeas a country and ses residents . 
today today , I cannot dispel me prevent the considérer Act strength of the Canada and the Hon. economy , the absence of everyone conflict international of envergure , health revolution époustouflante who faces prépare streets the field of them Science and the Day technology analyzed that royal puissante combination of all these factors who , together , not arresting that improve Act quality and health richesse of health life of all levels Canadians and the foreign almost 6 billion to êtres humans who partagent our planet , without ressentir series once the most , and still more intensément , what same optimism who me animait when , jeune man , I am arrivé Act Act colline of the Parliament . 
finalement , honourable senators , I me exprime at partir of the standpoint of standpoint of something a who is at the Senate since very little of time . 
i am arrivé here there there has a little more of a 2000 yeas entreprendre series nouvelle career . 
even if I avais series training of lawyer , at the surveillance of them 30 years précédentes I ai been a man of affairs who faces is efforcé of bâtir series congruent exerçant his activité at the Canada and elsewhere . 
what faisant , I ai much learned Act them réalités of the milieu of them Affairs and based on functioning of our economy . 
i ai learned that he guardian essentiel of wheel of them persons instruites and well formées streets toutes them disciplines . 
i ai learned that the leadership is series jurisdiction exigée and appliquée at all levels niveaux by blunt congruent prospère . 
i ai learned that royal pride éprouvée relatively at series company and at ses products is series clé fondamentale of the success and that royal pride that series human éprouve at the hook of his country grandit without cesse when our products and services are exportés a little everywhere streets the world . 
honourable senators , we devons continue to tirer the meilleur party to our proximité and the our links of friendship and continue to avoid them pièges associés at them inégalités streets Act richesse and streets the échelle social . 
he fell is analyzed since that Sir John A . Macdonald has done series first assessment of our future , and confirms not has never been also true that today today . 
we , Canadians , devons demeurer firmly attachés at our values and at our identity . 
series society who never is éprise anguishes of justice anguishes of compassion not saurait réellement progresser . 
however , commentator them country of the globe are the most fell more étroitement reliés , we devons we concentrer Act them needs particuliers of the XXIe century . 
the thanking , he tangibly that the Canada ait series economy and series life culturelle more riches and more attirantes yeas capter the interest of them young Canadians and their offer to nouvelles perspectives . 
what is with these atouts that we pourrons them inciter at vivre and at make career here , at the Canada . 
honourable senators , I am always animé of series ferme conviction , who trouve dapper source streets the enthusiasm and the optimism auxquels I ai goûté here there there has more of 30 years , and I cannot am not the odyssey at croire that we pouvons them make revivre . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the Honourable George J . Furey : 
honourable senators , what is yeas moi a honour and a privilege of appuyer Act motion , présentée by mon estimé colleague and ami , the senator Kroft , visant the adoption of series Adresse fell response at the speech of the Trône prononcé by His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale . 
i takers here to them women and the foreign men who acclaimed fact much yeas the Canada , and the make part of unabated grande institution me honore and me impressionne . 
i query prendre a moment yeas congratulate the senator Graham and the senator Carstairs of their work at title of Leader and Leader Deputy of the government at the Senate . 
i cannot ai not strokes during long the opportunity to them see at the implementation , but durant them two premières weeks mouvementées of September , I ai avoided constater with breaching dedication they accomplissaient their task fell unabated House . 
condolences meilleurs vows them accompagnent streets their nouvelles duties and I know that they continueront of us apporter their contribution and their assistance . 
i tiens at souhaiter Act welcome at the senator Boudreau , who prend the relais at title of Leader . 
i manquerais at mon duty , honourable senators , if I cannot félicitais our Gouverneure générale yeas the speech of the Trône that she has prononcé yesterday . 
ses accomplishments at title of communicatrice , newspaperman and défenseur of nombreuses causes valables fell acclaimed fact series of them grandes figures of our country . 
i am very enthousiasmé by Act perspective of see dapper vigueur and his mind animer the station vice - royal at the surveillance of them prochaines years . 
honourable senators , what is a honour and a privilege of participate at Act life Public at unabated époque of our history , a time where them challenges are the taille and Oceans opportunities stimulantes , series ère of mondialisation and the magie technologique . 
we analyzed solemn at few weeks of a nouveau millennium . 
the époque not is not only exaltante yeas the country everything entier , she Gallery also a standpoint tournant yeas Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the Labrador . 
these derniers months of 1999 constitute everything naturally a time to v. during lequel them Newfoundland - Neuviens réfléchiront at Act place that they occupent at the Breast of the country and at their perspectives of future . 
today today , Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the Labrador apply retrouvent streets Act tourmente of them grands changes technological and Economic who balayent the world . 
transport people of unabated region not apply laissent however not emporter ; they Cutbacks Appeal at their skills and at their acquis of attest date yeas make opposite at them réalités of the change rapide . 
thanks at their creativity , their ressort , their solidarité , their determination and their acharnement at the work , they réalisent their dreams and poussent toward the prior their province and their countries . 
transport statistics Economic récentes we fell disent term impact on evolution of our province . 
the Conference Board of the Canada has signalé that the rate of rBGH réelle of the GDP of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , who faces élève at 5,2p. cent , is the most élevé at the Canada . 
transport perspectives of employment apply améliorent also , car the rate of unemployment has diminué of more of 2.5 points since the 2000 last . 
transport honourable senators are at the courant of them retombées of mégaprojets commentator Hibernia , the aménagement of the surveillance inférieur of the Churchill and the éventuelle exploitation of the nickel of Voisey' Maclean Bay . 
these grands bills are cruciaux yeas Act Success economic of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , but the history is loin of apply finishing là . 
streets toutes them sphères of the economy , the foreign companies of our province remportent of them success of more fell more éclatants . 
certes , business industries traditionnelles commentator the exploitation minière and the foreign Forestry and Oceans fisheries demeureront of them elements essentiels at our well - perhaps economic . 
but confirms not doit not make forget Act exodus dynamic of diversification who has began at apply installer . 
the foreign companies implantées chez we Cutbacks their visitor streets of them domaines commentator them Communications , business techniques manufacturières of sunrise and health management of them déchets dangerous . 
honourable senators , the one of them sectors of rBGH them more importants at Newfoundland - Newfoundland , these dernières years , has been the tourism , and health trend should apply maintain . 
" soirée 99 " , who souligne Act contribution to Newfoundland - Newfoundland at the Canada fell what fiftieth anniversary of his entrée streets Act Confederation , has been a éclatant success at the échelle national . 
ses festivals , ses concerts and ses other activities , notamment Act prise temporaire of health tour of the CN , the summer last , laughed connu a franc success . 
these activities acclaimed contributed at prepare Act next grande célébration , fell 2000 , celle of the millième anniversary of the arrival of them Vikings streets the Brunswick Monde . 
transport Games of Winter of the Canada ' 1999 , referendums at Corner Brook , laughed also remporté énormément of success . 
qualifiées of the genus of them meilleures éditions of these games , business compétitions acclaimed fact découvrir our province at them téléspectateurs and at them visitors of the whole of the country . 
the success of them Games of Winter of the Canada , honourable senators , illustre the genus of them grandes forces of Newfoundland - Newfoundland that I tiens at mention , authorized the spirit généreux , ingénieux , bienveillant and chaleureux of them Newfoundland - Neuviens . 
til said often that foreign indicators Economic not suffisent not , at eux seuls , at illustrer what who fact series grande society . 
the Canada not is not became the grandfather country that he is today today sideshow fell reason for his performance economic . 
he is obvious that the foreign policies Economic solides and responsables jouent a role important , and the government earth - neuvien everything commentator the government federal devraient perhaps félicités yeas their bilan streets what field . 
health splendeur of our province and the our country not tient however not sideshow at their performance economic . 
what who fact of the Canada a country where he fact bon vivre , what who the distingue of them States - U.S. , what who fell fact the envy of the world entier , what is Act grande passion of them Canadians who veulent understand and protect all levels members vulnerable of their society , all ceux who never are not fell measure of prendre soin of eux - mêmes . 
honourable senators , he not tangibly never prendre confirms at Act lightly if we voulons continue to make the envy of the mon entier . 
we devons continuellement chercher at aviver unabated grande passion of them Canadians and never Act laisser apply éteindre . 
what is at Newfoundland - Newfoundland and at the Labrador that these values are them better illustrées , honourable senators . 
health quality of life of them Newfoundland - Neuviens dépasse blunt measure economic conventionnelle , car he is impossible to attribuer a price at the spirit originators , at the expression culturelle and at Act compassion . 
he not done nil doubt , honourable senators , that royal quality of life is directly liée at Act nature généreuse and charitable of series society . 
according the Enquête national of 1997 Act the don , the volunteerism and health participation , business residents of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the Government Labrador figurent still series once Incidence them citizens them more généreux of the Canada . 
more of the tiers of health population has rose to his time at the foreign oeuvres of bienfaisance . 
transport Newfoundland - Neuviens affichaient the most fort rate of contribution financière at the foreign agencies of bienfaisance at the Canada , 84p. cent of them residents of Newfoundland - Newfoundland - more of 15 years rose fact of them dons yeas help autrui . 
unabated generosity of mind , fell dépit often of time difficiles , is profondément enracinée streets the history of Newfoundland - Newfoundland . 
what is celle of people who familiar of grands revers since 500 years and that the adversité lient together at the instead of them séparer . 
Érosion : 
honourable senators , he remembered proceeded well - Provincial things positives today today at Newfoundland - Newfoundland and at the Labrador , but much of challenges restent at relever and much of problems , at résoudre . 
he is very encourageant of see that the government federal apply commits , streets the speech of the Trône , at apply attaquer at these problems . 
i tiens at parler here to both problems fell particular . 
the Prime is the problem of the exodus of them Newfoundland - Neuviens . 
much of families of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the Government Labrador acclaimed Act douleur of see partir of them friends and the foreign proches yeas of other parties to the Canada and the Government world . 
the déclin of health population at the 1er July last guardian the most bas never enregistré since Act closure of health fishing Act the Grand Banc , but he is still too élevé . 
he is encourageant of constater that the Prime Minister Tobin and his government are sensibilisés at what problem and déterminés at the atténuer . 
he is encourageant also , honourable senators , the see that the government federal apply commits , streets the speech of the Trône , non only at travailler at garder them young Canadians at the Canada , but also at make savoir that the Canada is really the meilleur place where vivre at the XXIe century , a place where them meilleurs and Oceans more brilliant streets the rest of the world voudront venir vivre . 
the commitment at invest of them fund streets Act research , business businesses novatrices and the perfectionnement of them skills aidera grandement them young of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the everywhere at the Canada at demeurer streets their countries yeas there pursue their dreams . 
we awakened a challenge connexe at relever , honourable senators , gerrymandering of continue at improve Act quality of the post dispensé at our young analyzed that foreign opportunities for including accéder . 
transport young Canadians to Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the elsewhere espèrent tirer the meilleur party to these nouvelles opportunities yeas power perhaps autonomes . 
they not arresting the make without series assistance adéquate fell matière of education . 
the University Memorial of Newfoundland - Newfoundland famous , fell 1999 , his fiftieth anniversary fell activist that établissement pouvant décerner of them diplômes . 
since 50 years , the University Memorial has played a role capital streets the development of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the Government Labrador . 
even if the access at a post - quality dispensé by the University Memorial and by the other établissements academic and collégiaux of the Canada apply is élargi at the incorrigible of them years , the nombreux students to Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the everywhere at the Canada not arresting entreprendre of them studies postsecondaires at cause of obstacles financiers commentator the lack of funds and Oceans fees of tuition élevés . 
the nombreux other are obligés of abandonner their studies before the foreign wheel terminées at cause of problems commentator the enormous indebtedness of them students . 
honourable senators , I organize these problems yeas them wheel vécus personally . 
without Act chance extraordinary that has constituée yeas moi Act tuition gratuite instaurée streets them years 60 by the Prime Minister Smallwood of the époque and his government , I think that I cannot serais not fell measure of make unabated intervention at the Senate today today . 
fortunately , bon number of them investment who acclaimed been annoncés streets the speech of the Trône and who visent at improve Act productivity and at lutter against the exodus of them cerveaux uncovered orientés toward them universities Forces , at the appui of them activities of research and development streets of them domaines commentator them care of health and health upper technology . 
combinées at the foreign initiatives commentator the Fund - dotation of them scholarships to studies of the millennium , these nouvelles resources contribueront grandement at tribute the post post more accessible at them students . 
yeas power suivre series training avancée , business children repositories power grandir streets a milieu course where their needs fondamentaux are satisfaits and they repositories perhaps encouragés at apply instruire and at bénéficier at the maximum of their studies primaires and secondaires . 
commentator them senators ' savent , he rereads has too of children who vivent streets Act poverty at the Canada . 
apply he not there Partnerships that a odyssey child pauvre at the Canada , confirms porterait despite everything atteinte at the extraordinary tissu Housing of our country . 
if the Canada wants réussir Act them plans Housing and economic streets the future , he wouldn tangibly venir at bout of health poverty chez them children . 
honourable senators , commentator til the has seen enough clearly streets the speech of the Trône , health condition of them children is at the Order of the day to them concerns of the government . 
til has much insisté Act them measures that the government account prendre yeas improve the fate of them children at the country . 
fell élargissant them programs actuels reassess the credit for tax yeas children , the program of alimentation of them nouveau - nés and Oceans congés parentaux , our government apply is engagé at prendre of them measures constructives . 
health collaboration with them governments provinciaux fell standpoint of coordonner the offers the these programs and services is at Act basic same of health Success of unabated initiative . 
honourable senators , when the foreign touristes of a little everywhere at the world viennent visiter Newfoundland - Newfoundland , commentator the rest of the Canada ' elsewhere , series grande part of what who them attire chez we is Act beauty of our océans , the our Forestry , the our mountains and the our rivières . 
if we voulons maintain Act reputation of the Canada at title of countries of series incredible beauty and the genus grande diversity écologique , we devons make davantage yeas protect the Environment naturel , there including individuals nombreuses cash of plantes and the animals whose the existence is menacée by the invasion humaine streets their habitat . 
honourable senators , we at Newfoundland - Newfoundland savons better than quiconque that when the balance of health nature is bousculé , business repercussions Act them people arresting perhaps dévastatrices and the grande envergure . 
what is therefore with much of enthusiasm that I accueille them efforts of the government fell standpoint of protect the integrity of our systems naturels . 
thanks at the foreign measures visant at reduce the émission of gas toxiques and at adopt the foreign regulations of together Act them cash menacées of extinction , the Canada arranged fell measure of adhere ses commitments opposite at them generations futures fell what who has trait at Act préservation of our history naturelle . 
honourable senators , at the surveillance of health campaign électorale of 1997 , the government has promised at them Canadians that royal half of the dividende budgétaire serait consacrée at the nouvelles Estimates streets them priorities payroll and that the another half serait divisée between the foreign baisses of tax ciblées and the remboursement of health debt national . 
streets the speech of the Trône , the government has réaffirmé that bearer commitment figurera streets the next budget . 
what is series good nouvelle yeas all levels Canadians who acclaimed subi of them years of réductions of them programs and the foreign services without declining of tax équivalente . 
he regardless fell outre of not not forget the importance of éponger Act debt national . 
if what not is not series surprise yeas them senators , he fell paving otherwise of series foule of Canadians who are étonnés of learn that royal more grande dépense of the government ' s Canada is représentée by the service of health debt national - lequel apply élève at something 40 billion to $ by year ; everything bearer money could perhaps more useful apply he guardian dépensé otherwise , but we cannot pouvons not the make activist that royal debt not fingertips not been diminuée . 
series approach équilibrée is essential streets the economy mondialisée of today today , series economy who faces transforme quickly and who is fell perpétuelle evolution . 
transport powers publics repositories therefore perhaps more flexibles and capables of adopt davantage of démarches strategic opposite at them challenges . 
what is essentiel if we voulons adhérer at these values which we séparent of the rest of the world . 
fell our quality of parliamentarians , we devons exhorter and inviter all levels ordres of government at not never losing of standpoint them grandes values Forces who we distinguent , car apply he continues to there valoir of them laissés - campus - account streets our society , run he continues to there wheel of them children défavorisés , run he continues to there wheel a lack of care of health yeas our malades and our persons seniors and apply he continues to there wheel of them carences , voire of them échecs , streets our systems of education , lesquels not parviennent not at fournir of them chances égales at all levels Canadians , what is blunt Act society who fell souffre . 
the grandfather poète English John Donne the has very well said streets his bref , but poignant poème " Île déserte " . 
fell activist that member of health grande society canadienne , I urge all levels senators at écouter Act dernière strophe of what poème and at interpeller Act conscience collective canadienne who doit always the perhaps if we voulons we souvenir of these values which we distinguent : 
and , by conséquent , not cherchez never at savoir yeas who sonne the glas , car he sonne yeas you . 
the maintien of the approach to the government fell matière of orientations translated arranged indispensable if the snakes wants that the government conserve a role positif and compatissant auXXIe century . 
i am enthousiasmé by foreign initiatives annoncées streets the speech of the Trône and by foreign opportunities apply offrant at Newfoundland - Newfoundland and at the Canada , at the approach to the XXIe century . 
honourable senators , I attends with impatience of travailler with composite of between you yeas make fell sorte that the Canada authorized really the meilleur place where vivre at the XXIe century . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Boudreau , the debate is adjourned . ) 
the adjournment 
leave rose been granted to revert at them notice of Motion to the government : 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the alinéa 58 ( 1 ) 1:30 ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that , when the Senate adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until at tomorrow , the Thursday 14 October 1999 , at 9 hours . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
is - what the agreement , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
questions of privilege 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , two senators senators acclaimed fact savoir that they voulaient raise Act question of privilege . 
well course , if the Senate Committee widow , I am loan at their accorder Act parole . 
however , I voudrais souligner that I ai already rendu series decision Act them two questions of privilege and that the Senate has accepted that foreign motions proposées by foreign two senators regarding these two questions soient renvoyées appeared the committee Standing of them privileges and the Government Rules . 
if the Senate Committee widow , business honourable senators palatable everything simply repeat them motions adoptées lors of health dernière session . 
however , if them honourable senators désirent Act parole , they are libres of apply express . 
the Honourable Anne C . Cools : 
honourable senators , I voudrais simply me assure that I ai well including the whereupon he retourne . 
transport two questions of privilege acclaimed been soulevées fell vertu of the article 43 of the rules , His Honour has rendu series decision , the opinion of them senators has been entendue and health issue has been renvoyée at the committee . 
i believe that what that he tangibly , what is everything simply Act confirmation that the Senate is the Government same opinion that lors of health dernière session and that , with Act leave of the Senate , or fell vertu of the paragraph 59 ( 10 ) the Government Rules , business two senators are autorisés at propose their motions Act - Government - champ . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , étant moi - even at the origin of series of them questions of privilege soulevées durant Act dernière session , I me plierai volontiers at the desire to unabated hon. House understandings at Act way of procéder . 
however , he rereads has referred the least two schools of journalistic yeas what who is the determine whether , when he rereads has prorogation , the Parliament remains saisi of series question of privilege who has been soulevée before Act prorogation . 
i veux simply wheel series more grande certainty . 
bye mon notice , what is là series question of privilege very grave , and I believe that foreign senators étaient of agreement Act what standpoint before Act prorogation . 
fell fact , His Honour Partnerships jugé that royal question of privilege paraissait fondée at first standpoint . 
however , commentator he rereads has two schools of journalistic , I voulais a more grandfather degree of certainty , and what is why I ai rose a notice oral . 
if them senators are the agreement , I parlerai very briefly of unabated affair and His Honour déterminera , run he is always the bearer notice , that royal question of privilege paraît fondée at first standpoint . 
he not there fingertips Robbie more nil doubt , and Oceans motions pertinentes pourront perhaps présentées yeas that royal question authorized renvoyée at the committee , series once that gerrymandering - ci fingertips been formé . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
except notice contrary , I vais now give Act parole at the senator Andreychuk . 
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk : 
honourable senators , I voulais me assure , moi also , that ma motion and unabated question of privilege cannot étaient not perdues . 
i cannot ai not the intent of me étendre fell term and fell large là - dessus . 
i me contenterai of Refer them honourable senators at them propos that I ai referendums the 14 September . 
the National Post has released of them ébauches non autorisées of the report of the committee of them Peoples aboriginal . 
he rereads Partnerships a certain number of ébauches fell surveillance ; he not done nil doubt that thin acclaimed been portées at the attention of the newspaper . 
that til me comprenne well : I cannot me prononce not based on fact that the newspaper ait released them ébauches of the report . 
by souci of brièveté , I cannot vais not repeat condolences propos . 
toutes them observations that I voulais make , I them ai faitesle 14 September . 
i veux simply that he fell authorized fact mention streets unabated motion . 
transport documents which acclaimed been déposés Robbie are suffisamment éloquents , and I am convaincue that royal decision restera inchangée and that I dispel now propose Act motion yeas that the affair authorized renvoyée at the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure . 
decision to the Speaker 
his Honour the Speaker : 
bye less than a another senator not souhaite intervene Act Act question of privilege , I vais tribute ma decision , who is Act same that celle that I ai renduele 14 September . 
i reconnais that he rereads has strokes présomption of atteinte at the privilege and that the Honourable Senator can propose dapper motion . 
i me request however if til not could not modify something little Act motion . 
Étant rose that the committee not has not yet been constitué , til not saurait Refer the affair at a committee which no existe not . 
til could perhaps - perhaps add at Act motion what who suit : " Dès that the Comité of selection fingertips been constitué , that unabated affair authorized renvoyée at the committee " . 
is - what the agreement ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the Honourable Marcel Prud man : 
honourable senators , I ai attended at series meeting what morning , at 9 1:30 30 , who faces is déroulée at vive allure . 
pourrions - we savoir why til not has not created what committee what morning ? 
health meeting appeared create the foreign committees has débuté at 9 1:30 30 , puis has adjourned quickly . 
when can - til apply wait at what that foreign other committees soient créés ? 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I cannot dispel not respond at unabated question . 
i takers however the Leader Deputy of the government apply lever . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I cannot am not course that unabated question authorized recevable . 
she the aurait been durant Act period of them questions . 
permettez - moi however the cheering respond . 
we analyzed at the beginning of health session and Oceans leaders of what side - ci veulent wheel Act possibility of accorder more of attention that he not we took been rose to the make at Act composition of them committees that the Comité of selection paving constituer . 
transport meetings commenceront blocks tomorrow Act what topic . 
voilà Act response , Senator Prud man . 
referred at the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure 
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk : 
honourable senators , I move therefore : 
that royal question of privilege at the topic of health divulgation non autorisée of ébauches of a report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Peoples aboriginal authorized renvoyée at the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure when he fingertips been constitué . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , yeas perhaps precise , the Comité of selection not réorganise not a committee , unabated task appartient at the Senate to the Canada . 
health formulation should perhaps " series once that he fingertips been constitué by the Senate to the Canada after Presented of the report . " 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , êtes - you to agree yeas that we modifions Act motion fell what sense ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the Honourable Marcel Prud man : 
honourable senators , I cannot voudrais not , if earlier at the beginning of health session , utiliser the rules of the Senate because that our bon ami , the senator Hays , doubt that unabated Position not authorized réglementaire . 
what is everything at fact against the rules . 
yesterday , I me am opposé at the adoption of health motion of appointment of the Comité of selection . 
what is what that they acclaimed fact with much of célérité and the rapidité . 
they acclaimed procédé at Act selection of them members of two committees . 
ma Position not enfreint not the rules . 
health meeting of what morning capitalists , understandings at moi , serve at désigner them members of all levels committees . 
that foreign leaders of them two sides of health House aient decided to procéder at appointment of them members of two committees only not me bothers not . 
but the là at croire that I enfreins the rules , I cannot am not to agree . 
we cannot awakened that at rereads carefully Act motion which has been adoptée yesterday , Robbie that I pensais that she the serait today today . 
i aurais avoided débattre of these issues more earlier today today , but I préfère wait at tomorrow . 
i cannot enfreins not the rules when I dis that the Comité of selection has sat what morning and that he aurait avoided appoint them senators who uncovered members of all levels committees . 
he has decided , streets dapper wisdom , the no désigner of them members that at two committees . 
the senator Hays has therefore reason and moi also . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I cannot vais not determine which has reason or who has wrongly . 
i veux everything simply you consigned that the study of them reports of the Comité of selection has been reportée at tomorrow . 
you aurez Robbie the opportunity , lors of the study of the Prime and the Government second reports of the Comité of selection , the make valoir your proposal . 
the Senate expecting now Act motion of the Honourable Senator Andreychuk , seconded by the Honourable Senator DeWare : 
that royal question of privilege at the topic of health divulgation non autorisée of ébauches of a report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Peoples aboriginal authorized renvoyée at the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure when he fingertips been constitué . 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
his Honour has statué the 9 September that royal question of privilege paraissait fondée at first standpoint and the affair has been renvoyée at the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure yeas study and report . 
commentator we the awakened indiqué he rereads has a moment , health issue of privilege is soulevée afin of obtaining the foreign Particulars , and I demanderai at His Honour the statuer , commentator he the has already done , that she paraissait fondée at first standpoint . 
if His Honour fell décide analyzed , I am loan at propose series motion appropriée . 
decision to the Speaker 
his Honour the Speaker : 
if nil Senator not souhaite prendre Act parole Act Act question of privilege , I am loan at prendre series decision now . 
commentator I the ai statué the 9 September , the Honourable Senator has , according moi , démontré that dapper question of privilege guardian fondée at first standpoint and he can propose dapper motion visant at Refer the affair at the committee . 
referred at the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I move : 
that royal question of privilege regarding a witness who has comparu appeared the committee sénatorial Standing of the Agriculture and the foreign Forestry authorized renvoyée at the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure , when he fingertips been constitué , yeas study and report . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
( the Senate apply ajourne at the Thursday 14 October 1999 , at 9 hours . ) 
debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
2e Session , Session Session , 
volume 138 , Issue 3 
the Thursday 14 October 1999 
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker 
table of them Contents 
STATEMENTS STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
transport fisheries and Oceans océans 
transport provinces maritimes - Ex judgment of health Court Supreme confirmant them rights of fishery aboriginal 
transport price of the affair " Personne " yeas 1999 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
transport travaux of the Senate 
the adjournment 
Points at the rules 
the Association Parliamentary canadienne of the NATO 
health delegation canadienne at Act session of the spring of the Assembly of the Atlantic North , tenue at Varsovie , fell Poland - ô of the report 
transport stratégies visant at respond at them needs of them aboriginal fell matière of housing 
notice of inquiry 
orders OF THE 
transport travaux of the Senate 
the Comité of selection 
passage of the Prime report 
passage of the second report 
visitors of Gallery 
transport and Communications 
Authorized at the committee of examiner the décret commitments fell vertu of health Act Act them transport at the Canada yeas autoriser Act tenue of discussions Act Act proposal of achat of Air Canada by the sector private 
routine Foreign 
Authorized at the committee of And the nouveau mandate of the Organization of the Traité of the Atlantic North 
motion of amendment 
Authorized at the committee of And them consequences of the union Monetary European 
transport travaux of the Senate 
the SENATE 
the Thursday 14 October 1999 
health postponement is ouverte at 9 hours , the Speaker étant at the fauteuil . 
prayers . 
transport fisheries and Oceans océans 
transport provinces maritimes - Ex judgment of health Court Supreme confirmant them rights of fishery aboriginal 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
honourable senators , I you mover of you montrer a little indulgents , the time that I touche a word Act Act situation which has surveillance streets the sector of them fisheries Act Act Coast is . 
bye them dernières nouvelles , and I dois avouer that I me fell remets almost exclusively at them bulletins of press of what morning , business chefs seem wheel renoncé at the moratoire of 30 days that they specialist consenti at adhere . 
always the afternoon them comptes rendus of press of the debate which has strokes instead at the another place yesterday evening , he seems that the minister of them Fisheries , Rand Dhaliwal , has been commitments by surprise by unabated nouvelle , everything commentator the government is nary bouche bée , he rereads has four weeks , when Act Court Supreme of the Canada has rendu dapper decision . 
loin of moi the idea , honourable senators , the me poser fell expert jurist and still less fell interprète of the judgment of health Court Supreme of the Canada , but Act statement introductory by a result them chefs what morning , according laquelle him and ses colleagues apply réservent the right to réglementer their propres activities of fishery , is , at mon humble opinion , contrary at the judgment rendu by Act Court Supreme of the Canada . 
streets Act decision majoritaire , the judge Binnie fact état of : 
... Act scope limitée of the right issu of the treaty . 
he wrote rejecting : 
the right issu of the treaty is a right réglementé who may , by regulation , perhaps circonscrit at ses limits appropriées . 
the foreign limits of prises , whose he serait reasonable of apply wait at what that thin permettent at them families mi' kmaq of apply ensure series subsistance convenable according them standards of today today , arresting perhaps établies by regulation and appliquées without porter atteinte at the right issu of the treaty . 
a tel regulation respecterait what right and constituerait not series atteinte who should perhaps justifiée suivant Act norme établie streets the v. Badger . 
honourable senators , he me seems that these statements are series invitation lancée by Act Court Supreme of the Canada at the government afin that he moved a settlement . 
when the judge fact référence at the regulation , at them limits of captures and at the Imposition of a settlement , he rereads has instead of supposer that he parle of a settlement who serait proposed by the government . 
he rereads has approximately two weeks , the Prime Minister aurait said that the government envisageait of ask at Act Court Supreme of surseoir at his judgement . 
more recently , the minister of them Fisheries apply fell is commitments at them Members of the Opposition who demandaient Act same something . 
i guess that the government has examined and rejeté the option of ask the surseoir at the judgment and that unabated option has been éliminée . 
he me seems therefore that everyone what that he remains at make at the government , what is the introduce series measure legislative or a settlement , or telecommunications two . 
fell outre , the government should envisager of Refer the regulation fell question directly at Act Court Supreme yeas veiller at what that he authorized well compatible with the judgment rendu by unabated dernière . 
i doubt fort that foreign aboriginal apply satisfassent of less of dictatorship . 
no regardless breaching regulation who arranged tabled arranged obligatoirement contesté and devra mood by the whole of the process judicial . 
i estimated prudent that the government veterinary a tel regulation at Act Court Supreme of the Canada . 
honourable senators , if I dis confirms , what is simply because that royal situation apply worsening of day fell day . 
without vouloir perhaps alarmiste , I think that we cannot impotent that too conscients of them incidents violent who faces are products streets Act region and are at Act veille of apply produire . 
a vacuum legal has been created . 
the other acclaimed rempli what vacuum created by Act Court Supreme of the Canada and he me seems that ça paving perhaps the chaos . 
transport price of the affair " Personne " yeas 1999 
the Honourable Catherine S . Callbeck : 
honourable senators , I query souligner that we célébrerons the Monday 18 October next Act Journée of health human . 
what is the 18 October 1929 that the Council private britannique has statué that foreign women étaient of them " persons " fell right Heritage and that thin pouvaient therefore perhaps élues at the Senate . 
unabated decision has been rendue at Act subsequently of series attest bataille legal and political menée by Emily Murphy , Nellie McClung , Louise McKinny , Irene Parlby and Henrietta Muir Edwards , five women Forces better actresses commentator étant them " Famous Five " . 
since 1979 , fell commémoration of the affair " Personne " , the foreign price of the Governor General are décernés each year at them alentours of the 18 October yeas honorer of them women who acclaimed actively contributed at Act promotion of health wife . 
i am fière of make savoir at them honourable senators that series wife of Tignish , fell Île - du - Prince Edward Édouard , Anne - Marie Perry , arranged Incidence them five lauréates of unabated year . 
Anne - Marie is series human remarkable who continues to contributing actively at the course - perhaps the dapper community , the dapper province and the Hon. country . 
what is Act second wife of the island at recevoir what price prestigieux . 
Helen Yeo , the Charlottetown , fell Île - du - Prince Edward Édouard , the has already remporté fell 1986 . 
bye the level dd , she has défini and supported the foreign changes to programs fell standpoint of accroître them chances of them women durant his mandate of member and the patron of the committee of them calls of them services Cultural of the Île - du - Prince Edward Édouard . 
bye the level attain , Ms Perry has been a member active of the Council Advisory Heritage of health situation of health wife of 1981 at 1986 . 
four other women recevront the same honour that Anne - Marie unabated year . 
he remembered notional of Mmes Bertha Allen , the Inuvik , streets them Territories of the North - western , Maris Eriksen , the Calgary , fell Alberta , Enid Page , the Aylmer , at the Quebec and Bette Stephenson , the Richmond Hill , fell Ontario . 
honourable senators , business five lauréates of them price of the Governor General of unabated year deserve of them congratulations yeas the remarkable work that thin acclaimed accompli streets their communaut fell standpoint of make avancer Act cause of them women . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
his Honour the Speaker : 
i ajouterais , yeas the information on them honourable senators , that royal Presented of them price of the Governor General apply déroule normally at Rideau Hall and that she is always suivie of a dinner offert at the Senate by the Speaker of the Senate . 
unabated year , he has been decided to introduce them price at Calgary because that what guardian fell Alberta that habitaient them five women of the époque . 
health Presented arranged therefore introductory Monday next at Calgary . 
i représenterai the Senate at Act ceremony and all levels senators who désirent there participate are invités . 
if you désirez of more amples details at what topic , veuillez entrer fell communication with mon office . 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
transport travaux of the Senate 
the adjournment 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the alinéa 58 ( 1 ) 1:30 ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that , when the Senate apply adjourns today today , what authorized at the Tuesday 2 November 1999 , at 14 hours . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the Honourable Marcel Prud man : 
honourable senators , I cannot you cacherai not mon désarroi opposite at bearer adjournment prolongé . 
we venons at peine of revert . 
i aurais souhaité that the Senate seat Act week next , sinon the another week . 
i cannot comprends not why them committees sénatoriaux not are not already formés . 
the foreign travaux extraordinaires palatable perhaps sparked by these différents committees . 
the committee of them transport and the foreign Communications and the committee of them Affairs Foreign devraient sit today today . 
Points at the rules 
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs : 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
he not apply notional same not to series motion . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , health leave has been granted to propose series motion . 
the Honourable Marcel Prud man : 
what is exact . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
the Senate is saisi of health motion . 
i believe that , series once Act leave granted , health motion can make the objet of a debate . 
i reconnais however that normally , health motion of adjournment not can perhaps débattue . 
the senator Kinsella : 
he remembered notional of a notice of Motion . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
he remembered notional of series motion proposant of ajourner at series date ultérieure . 
i cannot ai not consulted the rules , but puisque Act leave has been granted , I believe that royal motion can perhaps débattue . 
the senator Kinsella : 
honourable senators , we fell impotent at Act part of them travaux Convey Act them notice of Motion to the government . 
a notice of Motion has been rose and he not can there wheel of debate . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , the Senate has rose his agreed , what who loses the status of unabated motion . 
he not apply notional more simply the one notice of Motion when Act leave has been granted . 
however , run he rereads has the foreign divergences , I am disposé at prendre Act question fell advisement and at prepare series statement official . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I ai heard them commentaires of His Honour and the other honourable and I serai happy to écouter the senator Prud man and the respond at ses concerns if what is possible . 
the senator Prud man : 
honourable senators , I cannot veux not abuser of your bonté . 
i serai bref . 
i dispel him make savoir that I connaîtrai soon the rules by heart and that we aurons therefore certainly the foreign discussions intéressantes at the future . 
the senator Hays : 
honourable senators , contrairement at some , I cannot ai not 3.26 much of time at the rules of unabated House . 
yeas respond at them commentaires of the senator Prud man , I soulignerais everything of thanking that the Senate has sat during both weeks recently , authorized during Senators two premières weeks of the month of September . 
transport committees of the Senate specialist sat during both weeks before confirms . 
we awakened therefore worked , but I cannot am not certain that confirms intéresse the senator . 
the senator Prud man : 
i there étais . 
the senator Hays : 
yeas what who is the foreign travaux of the Senate , our objective today today , whose I parlerai lors of the next item of the Order of the day , VI Act creation , the most quickly possible , the two committees of the Senate , authorized the committee sénatorial Standing of them transport and the foreign Communications and the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign . 
these committees siégeront blocks Act week next apply they are créés and constitués . 
we serons therefore at the work streets unabated optique . 
the balance of health representation at them committees has always done the objet of discussions between the government and the Opposition . 
he rereads has the foreign questions who repositories perhaps débattues , and when I dis confirms , what not is not activist series excuse that series simple observation . 
by example , I occupies since shortly the station of Leader Deputy of the government at the Senate . 
i cannot ai not strokes the opportunity to parler of the affectation at them committees with them senators ' what side - ci of the Senate . 
he rereads has the other matters , that I préférerais not not aborder now , who uncovered inévitablement soulevées lors of condolences discussions with the Opposition Deputy of the Opposition and with the other honourable . 
i hope therefore that unabated period arranged utilisée of way profitable fell standpoint of régler these issues , afin that at our Return , we soyons fell measure of procéder immediately at the vote yeas constituer them committees . 
admettant that we cannot there parvenions not , the Senate we aidera at régler these issues . 
however , we devrions perhaps fully opérationnels blocks the lendemain of our Return , and Oceans committees pourront Robbie apply Camera , élire their chairman and convoquer their first meeting . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
the senator Hays : 
honourable senators , I me request if I pourrais prendre Act parole now . 
what is series journée inhabituelle fell what sense that we cannot awakened not much of affairs at the Order of the day . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
transport honourable senators consentent - they at what that the Honourable Senator Hays particulars Act parole now ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Hays : 
i voudrais ask apply he serait conforme at the rules of traiter of them questions inscrites at the Paper Subcommittee Act rubrique " Rapports of committees " , fell the occurrence them reports of the Comité of selection , and ensuite , the Government referred at the committee of them Affairs Foreign and at the committee of them transport of them motions regarding Casual mandats . 
the senator Kinsella : 
honourable senators , the Opposition convient that he remembered notional of series good suggestion and that we pourrons procéder analyzed when we passerons at the Order of the day . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' procéder of unabated manner when we passerons at the Order of the day ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the Association Parliamentary canadienne of the NATO 
health delegation canadienne at Act session of the spring of the Assembly of the Atlantic North , tenue at Varsovie , fell Poland - ô of the report 
the Honourable Bill Rompkey : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to déposer the Prime report of the Association Parliamentary canadienne of the NATO , who has représenté the Canada lors of health session of the spring of the Assembly Parliamentary of the NATO who faces is tenue at Varsovie , fell Poland , the Government 27 au31 May 1999 . 
transport stratégies visant at respond at them needs of them aboriginal fell matière of housing 
notice of inquiry 
the Honourable Thelma J . Challifoux : 
honourable senators , pursuant at the paragraph 57 ( 2 ) the Government Rules , I gives notice that , at Act next postponement of the Senate , I attirerai the attention of the Senate Act them stratégies visant at respond at them needs of them aboriginal fell matière of housing . 
orders OF THE 
transport travaux of the Senate 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , before that we passions at the Order of the day , I you mover , Your Honour , the us help , during Act pause , at clarify Act situation streets laquelle we ourselves impotent trouvés more earlier . 
if I comprends well , the Leader Deputy of the government has asked the Authorized to introduce series motion of adjournment . 
unabated Authorized has been granted . 
ensuite , the senator Prud man has began at fell débattre , and some of between us acclaimed estimé that he remembered agissait of series question not pouvant perhaps débattue , puisque the Authorized Partnerships been granted . 
health motion has been Proposed Robbie that we étions at them " Foreign courantes " . 
i cannot widow not débattre of health motion today today , but we serions happy to power savoir clearly when the debate is licences at the surveillance of health period of them " Foreign courantes " , if activist is that he the is . 
the blunt évidence , we savons when he not the is not . 
i raises unabated question streets the espoir that at the future , we cannot ayons not at subir them minutes of confusion that we venons of connaître . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
i thank the Honourable Senator Lynch - Staunton of raise Act question . 
i puis him ensure that we ourselves there attaquerons . 
i ai already asked at the staff to examiner them precedents at bearer regard . 
what is a standpoint Act lequel we devons savoir clearly what that he fell is , and I am confiant that we aurons unabated information at our Return . 
the Comité of selection 
passage of the Prime report 
the Senate proceeded at the study of the Prime report of the Comité of selection ( composition of the committee Standing of them transport and the foreign Communications ( , presented at the Senate Committee 13 October 1999 . - ( Le hon. Senator Mercier ) . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I move that the report authorized adopted . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the Honourable Marcel Prud man : 
honourable senators , if we avions strokes knowledge blocks the beginning of them explanations of the senator Hays , I cannot aurais not strokes at parler . 
he we took said exactly what that I voulais hear except that he not we the has not said at the avance . 
i ai now the EI that , health week next , business committees siégeront . 
i souhaite that , blocks today today , the committee of them transport and the foreign Communications who has been formé yesterday procède at the élection of his chairman and commence ses travaux blocks Act week next . 
he rereads has the foreign délais judiciaires at adhere Act unabated very importante question . 
i fais non only Appeal at them senators ' s Quebec , but also at ceux of the East of the Canada . 
we serons very affectés by Act decision which arranged prise streets what Bill of Onex . 
confirms not touche not only the Quebec , I cannot am not paroissial . 
i cannot ai not the spirit of clocher . 
i hope only that the committee apply mettra quickly at Act task , the sorte that we puissions sit Act week next afin of power wheel something something at say before that royal Court Supreme not rende series decision which risk of wheel a effect Act the future of Air Canada . 
apply he rereads has series something which should heed at heart at them Liberals , what is well Air Canada . 
he guardian same étonné of wheel succeeded at make substitute the name of them Lignes strikes Trans - Canada by gerrymandering of Air Canada , a name who is by Act subsequently became famous streets the world entier . 
( Act motion is adoptée , and the report is passed . ) 
passage of the second report 
the Senate proceeded at the study of the second report of the Comité of selection ( composition of the committee of them Affairs Foreign ) , presented at the Senate Committee 13 October 1999 . - ( Le hon. Senator Mercier ) . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I move : Adopted of what report . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the Honourable Marcel Prud man : 
i étais nouveau Senator . 
attendez a instant , confirms can make the objet of debates . 
i ai therefore commitments Act parole appeared bearer auguste auditoire . 
bye mon grandfather étonnement , human not is party . 
what day - là , everything the world has listened mon interpretation of bearer section of the rules . 
i ai said that the Comité of selection not should not forget that he rereads has the foreign senators who are flocked at the Senate streets the espoir of course serve their countries , notamment fell siégeant at them committees . 
i préfère " nay aligné " . 
yeas the instant , I préfère stay " nay aligné " . 
the problem apply worsening , car he rereads has now five senators who are streets Act same situation , whose three are very intéressés by the work of them committees . 
we cannot awakened not résolu the problem . 
we voulons montrer at the world how works series democracy . 
we voulons help at garantir the unity of the Canada . 
we voulons make understand what that the expression " First First " signifie . 
we voulons manifester of the respect at them minorities religieuses and other . 
pourtant , we cannot arrivons same not at decide what that he tangibly make the five senators dits independent . 
what is series shame . 
til has strokes Points at toutes sortes of stratagèmes , these six dernières years , yeas avoid the prendre series decision , but I me abstiendrai of appointing them senators who acclaimed trempé streets these machinations . 
i cannot prétends not that foreign senators non alignés acclaimed more of Rights that foreign senators Lynch - Staunton , Kinsella and Oceans other . 
i dirai by against that we fell awakened autant that foreign senators Carstairs , Graham and Oceans other . 
we analyzed all égaux , and what is the opinion of the senator Atkins and mostly of the senator Lynch - Staunton . 
if them senators are all égaux , they devraient power make part of committees . 
i cannot dis not that he particulars their accorder their Prime choice . 
i am loan at accept that til not me the accorde not . 
fell private , well - Provincial people me donnent reason . 
i gives now a notice , commentator the rules the exige . 
commentator Your Honour the knows pertinemment , when I dissenting make something something , I proceeded at them mood . 
he rereads has approximately five years , I ai reminded at the committee what who faces guardian past . 
unabated year , I ai rose ma parole at certaines persons here , at the Senate , that I cannot recommencerais not , that I cannot me lèverais not and that I cannot ferais not to speeches . 
i cannot screwed not that I ai been trahi , but almost . 
i cannot arrive not at croire that the odyssey fact of say nay puisse attirer autant of attention . 
i avais rose ma parole that I cannot ferais not to speeches what day - là , rose cru understand that we poursuivrions them travaux yesterday . 
i trouvais that what guardian equitable and I ai accepted . 
voyons what who faces is past . 
the Comité of selection has chosen them members of two committees . 
condolences observations not visent human fell particular , but I fell ai enough to them people who never jouent not franc - stake . 
some submariners losing blunt credibility . 
streets the numéro of the Quorum who is paru yesterday , he rereads has a section sensationnel wrote by series wife that I organize since the foreign years ; I veux parler of a nouveau Senator , Ms Finnerty . 
streets bearer section , she said that she is very fière of wheel been nommée at the Senate because that she admire the work of them committees sénatoriaux analyzed that foreign reports détaillés and savants who fell are issus . 
she quote , between other , business senators Croll and Davey . 
she said that royal value of the Senate apply trouve streets ses committees and streets Act continuité that he assure yeas better serve the Canada . 
you not entendrez more what speech very often ; I commence at fell wheel more than enough . 
if til me request for aller travailler yeas the government ' s Quebec , I irai . 
i ai another something at make that the losing mon time here . 
i am venu here because that I think that the Canada is fell danger . 
i am venu because that I believe that we pouvons montrer at the rest of the world that we pouvons make series difference . 
i déteste unabated hypocrisy who we done say that our country is the meilleur of the world , everything fell empêchant ceux who are loans at travailler of make fell sorte that he the remains . 
i comprends them First First . 
what not is not the Quebec who paving causer the éclatement of our country , activist is that confirms arrive a day . 
we devons perhaps more attentifs at them needs of them First First . 
i am very ami with them Nisga' has , fell British - British , and I prends their advocacy at each once that we fell parlons here . 
( 0950 ) 
honourable senators , that apply is - he past here , Tuesday last ? 
a Comité of selection has been constitué . 
i ai attended yesterday at Act first meeting of what committee and I me expecting at what that the committee avoue that he not savait too whereupon make the foreign senators independent , what who never me preoccupation not tellement yeas the instant . 
transport members of the Comité of selection arresting wheel series certaine incidence Act them travaux that entreprendra a senator at the surveillance of them two prochaines years . 
he remembered notional of a committee important , puisque , fell principle , these nine senators déterminent at breaching committee siégeront some senators . 
i me am therefore presented at Act postponement of the committee of yesterday yeas constater that a result them nine senators guardian absent . 
he Partnerships sent a remplaçant . 
honourable senators , I cannot nommerai human . 
you voyez therefore at breaching standpoint I am gentil , not is - what not ? 
transport senators emigrate make their propres recherches yeas find who guardian fell fault . 
when series human accepte a job , she doit the accomplir . 
transport women who siègent at the Senate acclaimed prouvé that thin remplissaient their duty much better than Act majority of them men at the Senate . 
i me souviens of them sittings that has tenues the subamendment - Committee on them Veterans Veterans fell February 1998 . Ni the Senate anguishes Act House of them Commons not siégeait at what moment - là . 
three senators Liberals acclaimed attended at them deliberations of the committee , all of them women . 
transport leaders of the Senate not acclaimed avoided find a man yeas sit at what committee . 
i pourrais you citer , word yeas word , what that the Honourable Senator Carstairs has answered at Act question that I him ai posée . 
i him ai asked : " Quels étaient them criteria appliqués ? " 
she has déclaré that she guardian Act first at aborder Act question of health representation of them women streets a report that she Partnerships rédigé Act them associations parliamentarians fell 1993 . Changes delegations at the époque étaient formées sideshow of men . 
bye what topic , I remind that I ai been remplacé by the senator Finestone during few years . 
however , I attends still the opportunity to réintégrer mon association préférée . 
honourable senators , I cannot know not how anguishes when Act House prendra series decision at the topic of these two reports . 
each once that foreign senators are interviewés at Act television or interrogés by a group of students , the journalists or other , that disons - we ? 
what is true , and I there believe . 
however , confirms should apply traduire streets them facts . 
i cannot believe not at Act substitution . 
if a senator accepte a station at the Breast of a committee , he or she should participate at toutes them meetings prescribed . 
we cannot impotent not to them Members auxquels til said streets them corridors : " Présentez - you at the committee today today and , after two years of Studies , he rereads fingertips a vote final fell committee . " 
they not savent same not what Act whereupon they apply prononcent , but they lèvent Act main when their leaders lèvent Act their . 
they not savent absolument not what who faces is past . 
honourable senators , business mots " continuité " and " dedication " are at Act mode streets our speech . 
bye the surveillance of them two prochaines weeks , commençons at réfléchir at Act way whose we allons aborder Act situation of them senators independent . 
if we cannot the cynicism not , I créerai mon own committee of parliamentarians who faces intéressent at them Affairs internationales . 
human not can we fell priver . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
if nil another hon. Senator not widow prendre Act parole , you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée , and the report is passed . ) 
visitors of Gallery 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I attire your attention Act Act presence at Act gallery of series delegation of the Senate to health Republic tchèque . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
transport and Communications 
Authorized at the committee of examiner the décret commitments fell vertu of health Act Act them transport at the Canada yeas autoriser Act tenue of discussions Act Act proposal of achat of Air Canada by the sector private 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , pursuant at the notice rose the Wednesday 13 October 1999 , moved : 
that , pursuant at the paragraph 47 ( 5 ) the Day Act Act them transport at the Canada , the décret tabled appeared unabated House , the 14 September 1999 , autorisant some carriers aériens majeurs and certaines persons at negotiate and at conclude blunt entente conditionnelle , authorized déféré at the committee sénatorial Standing of them transport and the foreign Communications ; 
that the committee entende , between other witnesses , the minister of them Transport ; 
that the committee authorized authorized at permettre Act diffusion électronique of ses deliberations translated ; and 
that the committee présente his report final at the most tardle 15 December 1999 . 
he rereads has a referred at the committee . 
the case échéant , I tenterai of there apporter series response . 
the Honourable Marcel Prud man : 
honourable senators , business names of them members of the committee étant connus , the committee doit now heed series meeting of organization fell standpoint of élire a president puis of apply concerter yeas give subsequently at the Order of referred . 
the Honourable Senator knows - he when the committee arranged constitué and loan at entreprendre ses travaux ? 
he can now apply allegiances at the ouvrage . 
what is specifically yeas confirms that we analyzed incomes , yeas permettre the beginning of them travaux of two committees , the one dirigé by the excellent chairman of the committee of them Affairs Foreign and gerrymandering - ci , whose health Ruling not is not yet déterminée . 
the arranged she Subcommittee little ? 
the senator Hays : 
honourable senators , health response is simply yes . 
i dissenting make the mon better yeas that the committee apply réunisse afin of désigner a president and that he entreprenne ses travaux , authorized more later streets Act journée or the here Act end of health week . 
til me has done remarquer that , étant rose Act motion of ajourner streets two weeks , he fallait series motion yeas that the committee puisse sit during that the Senate is adjourned . 
i vais me fell charger at Act end of health period of Presented of them motions . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
routine Foreign 
Authorized at the committee of And the nouveau mandate of the Organization of the Traité of the Atlantic North 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , pursuant at the notice rose the 13 October 1999 , moved : 
that the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign authorized authorized at examiner yeas fell make report them ramifications yeas the Canada : 
2 . - Government maintien of health peace , mostly Act ability to the Canada ' there participate Subcommittee them auspices of not regardless breaching body international whose the Canada done part . 
that foreign mémoires reçus and Oceans testimony entendus Act Act question by the committee durant Act first session of health trente - sixth législature soient déférés at the committee ; 
that the committee authorized authorized at sit during Senators sittings and Oceans congés of the Senate ; 
that the committee authorized authorized at permettre Act diffusion électronique of ses deliberations translated ; and 
that the committee présente his report final at the most tardle 18 November 1999 . 
the Honourable Marcel Prud man : 
honourable senators , what committee has played a role very important . 
we connaissons all Act jurisdiction and health patience extraordinaires of the chairman , the senator Stewart . 
i am désolé of learn that gerrymandering - ci we quittera fell November . 
i tiens at what that a another man charmant that I organize very well and that I ai supported at title of Secretary - Government Party Liberal during Senators years 70 not apply méprenne not based condolences propos . 
he remembered notional of the senator Lewis . 
when I ai spoke of continuité at the Breast of a committee and the members who faces lancent streets Act mêlée at Act dernière minute , I cannot pensais not at the senator Lewis . 
we savons all that the senator Whelan we took quittés bearer been fell reason for dapper retirement and that he has fallu the substitute . 
the senator Lewis , whose we connaissons all the intellect , the spirit judicieux and health jurisdiction at title of éminent lawyer , has been chosen yeas finishing the work . 
voilà why , now that I ai retrouvé mon calme , I tiens at rectifier everything what that I ai avoided make the déplacé . 
i cannot pensais not at the Honourable Senator Lewis when I ai spoke of continuité and the Government replacement of them members of committees . 
Évidemment , he fallait substitute the senator Whelan , and what is the senator Lewis who has been chosen . 
all levels other members of the committee restent fell function , and I me fell réjouis vivement . 
if I avais fact part of the committee , I aurais espéré that the senator Stewart authorized réélu at Act Ruling , afin that he puisse finishing her work , with the senator Andreychuk at Act vice - Ruling . 
voilà why I ai accepted Tuesday of not not prendre Act parole . 
we awakened invested of them hundreds of thousands of $ streets what committee afin that he effectue unabated study fell our name - and I tiens at what that all levels honourable senators ' sachent . 
he me seems perfectly naturel that foreign members who acclaimed worked at unabated study soient ceux who terminent the work . 
i cannot know not how you faites them things fell English . 
when I allais at the école , I étais bon streets certaines Contents , and mauvais streets of other . 
til me said that I excellais fell philosophie , notamment fell logical . 
the senator Taylor not should not songs autant , car I ai fact campaign yeas him also , during Act worse year - dapper career fell Alberta . 
i dispel dévoiler here the name of all ceux who acclaimed fourni their assistance . 
the senator Taylor : 
confirms détruit the argument according lequel you êtes a perhaps logical . 
the senator Prud man : 
i pensais you convertir at ma logical . 
i me réjouis much of health training of what committee . 
Évidemment , I assisterai the most possible at ses sittings , at title Volunteer . 
honourable senators , I cannot ai not the power anguishes the gloatingly of give the foreign advice at the committee , but I hope that what last fingertips everything the time necessary , car what is a job difficult . 
i hope that we cannot aurons not at ask , at the milieu of November , series another extension Subcommittee a another chairman , who devra recommencer at zéro . 
i hope that the committee prendra everything the time necessary yeas finishing her work afin that what authorized là the couronnement of them longues years of service of the senator Stewart at the Senate . 
yeas facilitate the work of the committee , I vais me asseoir now afin that the committee puisse apply Camera today today . 
i pourrais parler of all levels sections inscrits at the Paper what morning . 
we cannot devrions never heed series postponement at 9 hours because that I am almost at mon meilleur earlier the morning , and I am fell fact at mon meilleur very later the night . 
i souhaite good luck at the senator Stewart streets his work fell our name and I hope that the committee fingertips the time to finishing her work and the introduce at the Senate a report signed by the senator . 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
i believe that he is only logical that what paragraph authorized réinséré streets the mandate . 
the committee has tenu of them hearings at the surveillance desquelles he has heard various officials of the government , he has rencontré of them officiers supérieurs of them forces Armed , whose some étaient fell Bosnia , various experts of the maintien of health peace , the foreign historians , the Ambassador of the Canada at the NATO and much of ses colleagues , activist civilians that military . 
he has rencontré the Secretary General of the NATO who has quitté his station recently and the other hauts officials . 
he has done much of recherches and recueilli much of information , whose health distraught part aidera at Act preparedness of the report final . 
transport witnesses clés who manquent , what is - at - say who never are not précisés streets the mandate , are the minister of them Foreign Foreign , the minister of health Défense national and the Opposition of état - major of health Défense , who are them witnesses that he serait the most logical of hear before the allegiances end at them hearings . 
i move therefore a subamendment who , I the hope , recevra the appui of the Senate . 
he suivrait the paragraph 2 of health motion whose we analyzed saisis . 
motion of amendment 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
by conséquent , I move , supported by the senator Kinsella : 
that the committee entende , between other witnesses , the minister of them Foreign Foreign , the minister of health Défense national and the Opposition of état - major of health Défense . 
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud ( His Honour the chairman Acting ) : 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion of amendment ? 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , health motion telle that she guardian lors of health session précédente guardian enough agressive , with them names of them ministers and the foreign other officials that the committee voulait hear . 
these names not are not précisés streets Act motion actuelle fell part at cause of the giveaway rose at the committee yeas make report and the Day Availability of them ministers and the foreign other persons nommées streets Act motion originale . 
i écouterai carefully them arguments of the senator Stewart , but I believe that what are là them principales reasons yeas lesquelles Act motion is commentator she is . 
well course , confirms not signifie not that the committee not can not convoquer these individuals and the other witnesses apply he the widow . 
i cannot know too why the committee not has not already heard these individuals , if what not is that ses travaux acclaimed been interrompus by Act prorogation . 
i ignore quelles are them intentions of the committee . 
i hope , commentator the has said : Senator Prud man , that the committee élira the senator Stewart commentator chairman . 
i ai constaté that the committee Partnerships the intent of débuter ses travaux blocks today today . 
he remembered could very well that toutes them persons énumérées streets Act motion initiale soient convoquées and entendues . 
he remembered could also , yeas of them reasons indépendantes of health volonté of the committee or the Government Senate , that these individuals not soient not disponibles . 
the afternoon what that I comprends of the rules of the Senate , we aurions a problem if these individuals not specialist not been entendues the 18 November , authorized at Act date fixée yeas Act Presented of the report . 
what is yeas confirms that royal motion has been formulée commentator she the is . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , fell activist that mover of health motion principale , I trouve that the amendment proposed améliorerait unabated motion . 
i there takers series motion amicale . 
she never limite not the number of persons that the committee can hear , but she invite gerrymandering - ci at hear , between other , the minister of them Foreign Foreign , the minister of health Défense national and the Opposition of état - major of health Défense . 
Étant rose the work abattu by the committee lors of health dernière session and account tenu of health quality of his work , I serais very étonné that he not Justice not necessary to hear them three persons mentionnées yeas power finishing ses travaux . 
i attends moi also with impatience of hear the senator Stewart . 
the Honourable John B . Stewart : 
honourable senators , til présume that royal decision that prendra the committee at the topic of dapper Ruling when he remembered réunira not arranged can - perhaps not valable . 
however , oublions confirms yeas the moment . 
i conviens with the senator Lynch - Staunton that the committee has accompli a job extremely fouillé and précieux . 
the work which has been accompli at the surveillance of health dernière postponement fact certes ressortir Act necessity of hear the minister of them Foreign Foreign . 
he fact ressortir , quoique less impérativement , health necessity of hear the minister of health Défense national . 
health same something vaut yeas the Opposition of état - major of health Défense . 
otherwise said , I am entièrement of agreement with Act seams of health motion of amendment to the senator Lynch - Staunton . 
Seneca series another reason yeas laquelle the committee should hear these three persons . 
the speech of the Trône , who has been read more earlier unabated week , oblige almost the committee at hear them ministers . 
the government accordera series importance accrue at Act security humaine streets dapper policy étrangère and he oeuvrera yeas that foreign instances mondiales réalisent of them progress véritables streets the framework of series démarche international yeas Act security humaine . 
we awakened already heard confirms of health share of the Present Minister of them Foreign Foreign , but now , what is Act Gouverneure générale who the said at the name of the government . 
he is obvious that the committee devra entendreM. Axworthy when he fell arrivera at unabated phase of his work . 
a another paragraph of the speech of the Trône attire our attention , and I quote at nouveau : 
the government continuera also the veiller at what that foreign Forces Forces soient fell measure of appuyer the role of the Canada yeas contributing at Act security streets the world and he remembered efforcera of accroître Act ability to them Canadians and the foreign Canadiennes of help at ensure Act peace and health safety streets of them country étrangers . 
he me seems that royal human that the committee doit hear là - dessus is the minister of health Défense national , health human compétente of the Department . 
i cannot takers not how the committee can make report without wheel heard these witnesses - Provincial two ministers at everything the least . 
however , I cannot dispel not parler at the name of the committee . 
i fell viens now at the standpoint soulevé by the senator Hays . 
whereupon that he fell authorized , health date of the 18 November consigned streets Act motion . 
the problem auquel the leadership of the government at the Senate is confronté , what is that the Senate could fort well apply find streets series situation impossible - Request series share , a giveaway serré and , the another share , the insistance that three representatives fell particular soient entendus . 
if what is the case , the giveaway should perhaps considéré commentator souple . 
sinon , we aurons a gros problem . 
honourable senators , I think that the committee voudrait hear at the least two ministers , and probably Act human at laquelle til has done référence . 
bye mon notice , confirms not done nil doubt . 
the problem auquel we analyzed confrontés is , the genus certaine way , a problem of form , at savoir : pouvons - we the make streets the time disposable ? 
if unabated provision is incluse , he is fort possible that the committee devra ask series extension au - delà of the 18 November . 
voilà Act situation telle that I Act comprends . 
the Honourable Nicholas W . Taylor : 
honourable senators , I query prendre a moment yeas express mon appui at Act motion of amendment Proposed by the another side . 
ask at the committee of rédiger a report without wheel heard the minister of them Foreign Foreign , the minister of health Défense national and the Opposition of état - major - Government Senator Stewart , who is a vieil Scotians , arranged of agreement with moi - serait a little commentator manger of the gruau without sel . 
me étant opposé more earlier unabated year at the intervention at the Kosovo , I estimated that he is important that we comprenions the raisonnement who Subcommittee - underlies our role streets them Affairs Foreign and the raisonnement who doit perhaps the ours streets the future . 
honourable senators , I ai recently prononcé a speech at the name of the Honourable David Kilgour , Secretary - State ( America Latin and Africa ) , appeared series class of graduates fell Science political , at Calgary . 
Koppel . Kilgour me Partnerships rose Act leave of express condolences propres pensées . 
i ai commitments Act freedom of parler streets the meaning of them propos referendums by the senator Stewart , at savoir that the future arranged conditionné much more by Act security personnelle or humaine that by Act security national . 
health plupart of them guerres who are survenues at the surveillance of them 20 dernières years acclaimed been the foreign guerres civiles and non - Provincial conflits between States . 
what is almost commentator a décret fell council , fell what sense that we ourselves engageons at make participate our soldiers . 
streets the case of the Kosovo , breaching kind of logical could justify the commitment to our forces Armed yeas bombarder of them women and the foreign children innocent , the Government odyssey fact that a country has elected Act mauvaise human yeas diriger his government ? 
i know that I profite of the opportunity yeas reopen the file of the Kosovo , and I cannot me fell excuse not . 
however , even if I cannot am not member of the committee of them Affairs Foreign , I account assister at few sittings and poser of them questions at them various witnesses . 
streets the case of a topic also important that the envoi of our military yeas effectuer of them missions of police without the approval of the Parliament , why confirms not should perhaps he not make the objet of a review approfondi ? 
health date limite of the 18 November is completely artificielle . 
i supports the everything heart Act motion of amendment . 
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk : 
honourable senators , I believe that royal motion of amendment aiderait the committee , car she témoignerait of health volonté of the Senate to encourage foreign ministers at apply introduce appeared the committee . 
i comprends perfectly that he puisse perhaps difficult yeas a president of ask at them ministers of venir testify , fell reason for their employment of the time chargé , but if confirms consigned streets the mandate of the committee , confirms conférera more of autorité at the chairman . 
if , yeas series reason impérative , a minister or the Opposition of état - major not pouvaient subpoenas appeared the committee , commentator we awakened the intent of them inviter at the make , he appartiendra at the committee of decide what that he conviendra of make at what moment - là . 
faudra he revert ask series extension of our mandate or serons - we libérés of unabated condition yeas the tabling of our report ? 
i believe that what is analyzed that he tangibly régler the problem . 
he remembered trouve that foreign termes streets lesquels the mandate is wording me plaisent , car they confèrent more of autorité at the chairman . 
the senator Hays : 
honourable senators , after wheel listened the debate , we , the what side - ci , accepterons the amendment permettant at the committee of hear these other witnesses . 
understandings at Act date of Tabled of the report , fell activist that President of Committee , I cannot ai never strokes of difficulty at revert ask at the Senate series extension of the time imparti yeas traiter of series question whose the committee Partnerships been saisi , and I am convaincu that he fell arranged analyzed yeas the committee of them Affairs Foreign apply he has need to series extension . 
the Honourable Marcel Prud man : 
honourable senators , we ourselves trouvons streets Act same situation that fell 1984 , when the government has voulu create a Institute yeas Act peace and health safety . 
everyone the world Tisserant that what guardian totalement impossible . 
much étaient against Act creation of a tel institute because that , disaient - they , what guardian a cadeau of departure yeas the Prime Minister Trudeau . 
i cannot étais not to agree . 
bye the époque , I étais chairman of the committee of health defence national and the foreign Affairs extérieures at Act House of them Commons and we avions 30 members at organiser . 
we awakened worked against Act shows . 
by confirms , I dissenting that if we estimons that our task is importante , we demandons at them members of the committee of travailler more often . 
he not there has nothing to better yeas ensure Act continuité that the sit five days by week . 
if the committee not seat that the time at another , we savons of experience that he not fingertips not the time to make everything what that he doit make , there including rédiger the report . 
the gloatingly not is not the one of condolences attributs , and I me garderais well - make Act lesson . 
Subcommittee Act Ruling - Government hon. Senator Stewart , and fell concentrant them services , the committee could sit during Act journée and make produire and traduire all levels various documents the night . 
with the Day volonté , I am course that he fera what that the senator Lynch - Staunton has asked and what that the senator Stewart aimerait accomplir . 
however , run he not seat that two or three days , voire two after - afternoon by week , what is impossible . 
nothing not we empêche of commencer a Monday , fell after - afternoon or fell soirée . 
i query really that til diminishes the giveaway afin that the report door the name of the senator Stewart . 
if we cannot arrivons not at adhere the giveaway , we pourrons always ask that til the repousse . 
if we voulons wheel something something of concret between them mains , he serait bon , streets Act measure of the possible , the make paraître the report at Act date prévue . 
what not is that fell everything last Points that the snakes should tangibly at ask series extension of the giveaway . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
honourable senators , I request Act leave of prendre of nouveau Act parole at what topic . 
his Honour the Speaker Acting : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
i thank also the senator Hays of accorder the appui of his party at unabated motion of amendment . 
he constatera , I believe , that foreign ministers and the Opposition of état - major of health Défense apply réjouiront of power subpoenas appeared the committee . 
he remembered notional là of a effort dénué of party commitments , who VI at help them Canadians at understand Act nouvelle NATO , health place to the Canada streets unabated organization , and at constater if we disposons of them resources voulues yeas respond at them obligations prises fell vertu of health nouvelle NATO , who has évolué much more quickly and streets a sense very différent by report at what that pensent Act plupart of between us . 
the Kosovo not has been that a example of dictatorship . 
the other examples suivront can - perhaps , and they risquent of Welfare still worse . 
the Canada doit savoir damned place he occupies streets Act nouvelle NATO . 
i ai bon espoir that foreign ministers and the Opposition of état - major of health Défense accueilleront favorablement the opportunity to us introduce the standpoint of standpoint of the government , what who may apply révéler useful yeas Act preparedness of the report that much of people , at the Canada and elsewhere , attendent impatiemment . 
transport discussions that I ai eues at what propos at the abroad me the confirment . 
the study aidera also the nombreux country later grandchildren at prendre Position . 
his Honour the Speaker Acting : 
honourable senators , the Honourable Senator Lynch - Staunton , supported by the Honourable Senator Kinsella , moved that til modifie Act motion fell ajoutant what who suit after the paragraph No. 2 : 
that the committee entende , between other witnesses , the minister of them Foreign Foreign , the minister of health Défense national and the Opposition of état - major of health Défense ; 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt the amendment ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
his Honour the Speaker Acting : 
the vote door now Act Act motion principale . 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion modifiée is adoptée . ) 
Authorized at the committee of And them consequences of the union Monetary European 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , pursuant at the notice rose the 13 October 1999 , moved : 
that the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign authorized authorized at And and at make report Act them consequences yeas the Canada ' s émergence of the Union Monetary European and based on other subjects connexes fell matière of Commerce and the investment ; 
that foreign mémoires reçus and Oceans testimony entendus Act Act question by the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign durant Act first session of health trente - sixth législature soient déférés at the committee ; 
that the committee présente his report final at the most tardle 15 December 1999 ; and that the committee conserve them powers nécessaires at Act diffusion of them results of his study contenus streets his report final and what until at the 24 December 1999 ; and 
that the committee authorized authorized , nonobstant them practices habituelles , at déposer his report auprès of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that ledit report authorized réputé wheel been tabled at the Senate . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
transport travaux of the Senate 
Authorized at them committees of siégerpendant them ajournements 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the alinéa 58 ( 1 ) f ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that , yeas Act durée of health présente session , business committees particuliers puissent apply Camera during Senators ajournements of the Senate . 
his Honour the Speaker Acting : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
his Honour the Speaker Acting : 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
( the Senate apply ajourne at the Tuesday 2 November 1999 , at 14 hours . ) 
debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
2e Session , Session Session , 
volume 138 , Issue 4 
the Tuesday 2 November 1999 
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker 
table of them Contents 
visitors of Gallery 
STATEMENTS STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
the Late of Greg Moore 
tribute 
the Late of Mwalimu Julius K . Nyerere , Ancien chairman of health Republic Unie of Tanzanie 
tribute 
the month of the history of them women 
health policy of the tax Act the Income applicable at them owners of lots Woodlot 
the Late of Claude Masson 
tribute 
health defence national 
health recognition of them missions of maintien of health peace at the abroad 
transport languages Languages 
postponement of health date of the tabling of the report annual of the commissioner 
the crime of trafic of êtres humans 
the Mois of the osteoporosis 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
the commissioner at Act protection of health life privacy 
depository of the report annual 
the Clerk of the Senate 
depository of them comptes annuels 
routine Foreign 
depository of the Prime report of the committee 
transport consequences of the Union Monetary European 
Presented of the report of the committee of them Affairs Foreign demandant the Authorized to engager of the staff 
routine Foreign 
the Comité of selection 
Presented of the third report 
the Clerk of the Senate 
referred to them comptes annuels at the committee of health Economy Internal , the foreign Budgets and the Government administration 
the adjournment 
the speech of the Trône 
the adresse fell response - Possibility end of the debate on eighth day to postponement - Notice of Motion 
health law Act the casier judicial 
bill to Bill Amend - Première Reading 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
first Reading 
bill to Bill of 1999 yeas Act implementation fell implementation of conventions fiscales 
first Reading 
bill to Bill Act them perquisitions and Oceans saisies internationales 
first Reading 
health Act Act the Parliament of the Canada 
bill to Bill Amend - Première Reading 
the Code criminal 
bill to Bill Amend - Première Reading 
bill to Bill Act Act Assent Royal 
first Reading 
health Act Act the Immigration 
bill to Bill Amend - Première Reading 
the Code criminal Position Act Act the system Correctional and health implementation fell freedom Subcommittee condition 
bill to Bill Amend - Première Reading 
the Senate 
depository of the report of health delegation of the Senate fell Republic Kirghize 
routine Foreign 
notice of Motion visant at autoriser the committee at engager of the staff 
notice of Motion visant at autoriser the committee at permettre Act diffusion électronique of ses travaux 
review of health policy canadienne antidrogues 
notice of Motion autorisant Act training of a committee sénatorial Special 
the Evolution and health mondialisation 
notice of inquiry 
review of health Act canadienne Act Act protection of the Environment 
notice of Motion 
office of salubrité of the Environment yeas them children 
notice of Motion constitutive 
health defence national 
notice of Motion Convey creation of a committee sénatorial Special chargé of examiner Act conduct of the staff at the surveillance of health mission fell Somalia and health destruction of dossiers médicaux of the staff fell mission fell Croatia 
the funding for the post post 
notice of inquiry 
health Conférence Act the equality of them women and their participation at Act life Public 
notice of inquiry 
transport Canadians éminents and their role at the Kingdom - Kingdom 
notice of inquiry 
the access at them data of the census 
Presented of petitions 
transport travaux of the Senate 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
the Agency canadienne of them customs and the Government income 
transport changes to health Benefit fiscale national yeas children - Comments effects Act them prestataires 
transport Nations Nations 
the désarmement nucléaire - Possibility policy of the government opposite at Act resolution of health York Agenda Coalition 
health defence national 
the replacement of them helicopters Sea King 
the West Nova Scotia Regiment - Possibility appointment of a Colonel Honorary 
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire 
health crisis Farm at the Manitoba and fell Saskatchewan - Possibility visit to health delegation at Ottawa - Comments anomalies streets them statistics 
health crisis Farm at the Manitoba and fell Saskatchewan - Comments doléances présentées at the Prime Minister 
health crisis Farm at the Manitoba and fell Saskatchewan - Ex effectiveness of the program of assistance fell case of catastrophe liée at the Income Farm 
health crisis Farm at the Manitoba and fell Saskatchewan - Possibility visit to series delegation at Ottawa - Comments anomalies streets them statistics 
health crisis Farm at the Manitoba and fell Saskatchewan - Comments repercussions Economic of health chute of the Income Farm 
health crisis Farm at the Manitoba and fell Saskatchewan - Possibility possibility of a program of credit Farm 
bibliothèque of the Parliament Langues Languages Examen of health regulators 
transport committees mixtes permanents - Message of them Communes 
health statement of the Speaker Act the octroi of series leave at the surveillance of them Affairs courantes and based on événement of the 14 October 1999 
orders OF THE 
the speech of the Trône 
motion of Adopted of the Adresse fell response - Continued of the debate 
bill to Bill facilitant Act prise of certaines decisions médicales 
second reading - Adjourned of the debate 
health strategy of the housing yeas them aboriginal 
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate 
the SENATE 
the Tuesday 2 November 1999 
health postponement is ouverte at 14 hours , the Speaker étant at the fauteuil . 
prayers . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , before the mood at them statements of senators , I voudrais you consigned Act presence at our gallery of few visitors of Gallery . 
he rereads has the thanking series delegation of the Assembly national of health Republic of Slovénie , dirigée parM. Janez Podobnik , President of the Assembly national , and accompagnée by His ExcellenceM. Bozo Cerar , Ambassador of health Republic of Slovénie at the Canada . 
bye the name of all levels honourable senators , I you souhaite la welcome at the Senate to the Canada . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , the another visitor of Gallery at our gallery today today is the senator John Watson of Australia , President of the committee sénatorial Special Act them Pension Plan retirement . 
you êtes the bienvenu at the Senate Heritage , Senator Watson . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
STATEMENTS STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
the Late of Greg Moore 
tribute 
the Honourable Ross Fitzpatrick : 
honourable senators , I prends Act parole today today yeas tribute tribute àGreg Moore , the coureur automobile of 24 years who is death Sunday afternoon wheel strokes a accident with dapper voiture lors of series course fell California . 
Greg is born and has grandi at Maple Ridge , fell British - British , and he guardian a result them meilleurs pilots of health series CART or the Government circuit automobile Indy . 
fell 1997 , at the age of 22 years , he has been the most jeune pilote at remporter series course fell series CART . 
unfortunately , well - other perspectives apply offraient at him . 
Greg offrait more than ses exploits Act Act piste fell donnant much at dapper community . 
he participait at the nombreuses manifestations of bienfaisance and he guardian a brillant défenseur of various causes . 
his enthusiasm streets the entraide guardian exodus . 
a fund Convey his name continuera of venir fell assistance at them oeuvres that he soutenait . 
honourable senators , business Canadians not are not loans of forget Greg Moore . 
the Late of Mwalimu Julius K . Nyerere , Ancien chairman of health Republic Unie of Tanzanie 
tribute 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
honourable senators , fell 1966 , til me Partnerships offert the station of vice - dean of the école of right to Dar es - Salaam , fell Tanzanie . 
i avais refused the offers , préférant stay at the Canada where I am became associé at the Breast of the most grandfather cabinet of lawyers of health region Atlantic . 
if I avais accepted the station fell Tanzanie , I aurais been the witness privilégié of the miracle democratic orchestré by Julius Nyerere , who has mené his country at the independence fell the affranchissant of the England fell 1961 , and who fut the Prime chairman of health Tanzanie , the 1962 at 1985 . 
Koppel . Nyerere guardian aimé and vénéré everywhere streets the world yeas his integrity , dapper modestie and his intellect . 
he guardian considéré commentator the one of them more grands men of State of the Africa , at the same title that Nelson Mandela , and he account Incidence them more importants leaders of the XXe century . 
Koppel . Julius Nyerere Partnerships series training of enseignant . 
he is arrivé fell policy fell 1954 and he fonda the TANU , authorized the union national africaine of the Tanganyika . 
he is became Minister fell Opposition when the TANU remporta them election of 1960 . 
Koppel . Nyerere devint Prime Minister when the Tanganyika accéda at the independence , fell 1961 , but he démissionna blocks 1962 yeas apply concentrer Act Act restructuring of the TANU and based on role that he allait play by Act subsequently . 
he devint chairman of series république after them election of 1962 . 
Étant rose queM. Nyerere souhaitait Act libération of them States africains , health Tanzanie servit of refuge at them members of the Congress attain of Africa and at the nombreux other groups dirigés by the foreign rebelles of the Zimbabwe , the Government Mozambique , the Government Angola and the Government Uganda . 
Nyerere guardian a ardent défenseur of health culture africaine locale , and dapper réalisation Act more miraculeuse fut of give at Act Tanzanie the union ethnic . 
bye the opportunity to a tribute at Nyerere streets the framework of the émission " As It Happens " , Stephen Lewis , who has served with them Nations Nations fell Africa and who guardian a ami of the former chairman , run is said émerveillé of health way whose Nyerere has commitments a country divisé according the appartenance tribale and has done to all of them " Tanzaniens " . 
he rereads is arrivé fell établissant of solides systems of education and the health and fell imposant series language commune . 
he guardian atterré by foreign consequences of health Division ethnic : foreign massacres and health destruction of series population and the one country . 
when Nyerere parlait of the Rwanda and offrait of the assistance at dapper population , he manifestait " much of emotion , the douleur and the compréhension " . 
no eût been the dapper vision and the Hon. leadership , health Tanzanie aurait avoided connaître of them horreurs semblables . 
the 20 October , the foreign hundreds of thousands of Tanzaniens acclaimed began at affluer at the aube streets them rues of health Capital Dar es - Salaam afin of tribute a last tribute at a man that the snakes appelait everywhere fell Tanzanie l' " enseignant . " 
the foreign foules énormes , but néanmoins pacifiques , bordaient Act road menant of the airport at Act residence deM. Nyerere située streets Act banlieue and gémissaient at the passage of his cercueil . 
Julius Nyerere has strokes right at the foreign funérailles of State fell Tanzanie the Thursday 21 October . 
what guardian a man at Act vision and at them principles remarquables who manquera at the nombreuses persons . 
honourable senators , Mary Lou Findley has well summary Act situation at Act end of the tribute rendu by Act radio anglaise of Radio - Canada fell disant that if Nyerere venait of a petit country , what not guardian certes not a petit personnage . 
i supports Act dernière remarque of Stephen Lewis , who has said that Julius Nyerere guardian " a man everything at fact pleasant " . 
the month of the history of them women 
the Honourable Lucie pin : 
honourable senators , October is the Mois of the history of them women . 
what is series excellente opportunity to saluting them progress accomplis and the envisager them barriers that he we rest at surmonter . 
we analyzed very redevables at them " Famous Five " which acclaimed mené series attest and dure lutte fell standpoint of tribute our presence at Act House possible . 
he rereads has now 70 years that we awakened acquis the right to perhaps palatable commentator of them persons . 
well that I cannot me arrête not at what that the snakes pensait that we étions before that we devenions of them persons , I know however that perhaps series human not has not yet the same poids that perhaps a man . 
the number of women présentes streets unabated House and streets the another place is yeas moi series source of recognition and the encouragement . 
their determination , their volonté , their intellect and their spirit constitute of them apports immenses yeas our country . 
pourtant , how forget that we analyzed still if little ? 
streets unabated House , our colleagues masculins continuent of us dépasser fell number , at reason for two yeas series . 
everyone fell we réjouissant of the fact that the Senate to the Canada authorized the fifth of the world yeas what who is the Day representation féminine , we cannot pouvons certainly not we settle the Government état Present of them things . 
he remains the nombreux barriers at Act participation of them women streets of whether nombreuses facettes of our lives economic and political . 
i ai évoqué of multiples once , streets unabated House and elsewhere , business difficulties auxquelles them women are confrontées when thin apply lancent fell policy . 
pourtant , without series representation adéquate of them women and the foreign other groups streets our institutions political , how pouvons - we ourselves targuer of democracy ? 
therefore , at the moment where we victories unabated Success essential that has been the affair " person " and foremost what that she has signifié yeas of them generations of Canadians , sachons that we cannot awakened not yet atteint the but . 
if them five célèbres militantes étaient with us , thin continueraient of apply battre yeas the equality . 
because that , today today still , we cynicism of them differences between them persons : between them men and Oceans women , between them riches and Oceans poor , between them young and Oceans vieux , between Act majority and Oceans minorities . 
and Oceans figures regarding Casual members of unabated House and ceux of the another place continueront of traduire these distinctions , until at the day where we accepterons the fact that series human is series human and nothing to another , anguishes more anguishes less . 
health policy of the tax Act the Income applicable at them owners of lots Woodlot 
the Honourable Erminie J . Cohen : 
honourable senators , I voudrais attirer your attention Act them concerns of them owners Airports of lots Woodlot at the hook of health policy of the tax Act the Income and based Act necessity , streets their interest , the apporter streets them meilleurs délais them changes appropriés at Act bill . 
streets ma province , the Brunswick - Brunswick , series family Act six is propriétaire of a lot boisé . 
approximately 425 40,000 lots Woodlot at the Canada appartiennent at the foreign families . 
streets much of provinces , what is the these lots that provient series part importante of them Contents premières nécessaires yeas make tourner them scieries and Oceans usines of pâte at papier . 
health plupart of them owners of these lots respectent their earth whose they prennent soin non only because that she contributes at embellir the paysage and at serve the habitat at them cash sauvages , but also because that she fournit of the lumber at the industry and assure the foreign jobs streets them small communities rural . 
prendre soin of these lots Woodlot is a job monumental . 
make pousser a tree at partir of a plant prend énormément of time , at the least 40 years streets Act plupart of them regions of what country . 
the genus of them façons whose the government federal can encourage Act promotion and the renforcement of them activities of aménagement forestier is the appliquer series good politics of tax Act the Income . 
when business Canadians dépensent of the money yeas monter series nouvelle affair , they arresting them premières years déduire them losses of their other sources of incomes streets Act measure where they arresting prouver at Revenue Canada that they apply attendent at the foreign " profits raisonnables " the their nouvelle congruent . 
transport owners of lots Woodlot , eux , not arresting not the make . 
when series exploitation Farm proceeded to series generation at series another , the tax Act the gain fell capital is reporté activist that royal family exploite Act ferme . 
when a lot boisé proceeded to a propriétaire at a another the another , the tax at payer is often enormous . 
if the nouveau propriétaire not dispose not to income yeas payer the tax fell question , he can perhaps forcé of tirer the money necessary to the lot , what who well often signifie that he doit couper them trees . 
( 1420 ) 
why réserver at them owners of lots Woodlot a treatment différent of gerrymandering auquel acclaimed right them other Canadians ? Position something apply explique , me seems he , by the fact that the wording of health Act to the tax Act the Income is tel that series congruent who mettrait until at 40 years yeas réaliser of them bénéfices passerait simply between them mailles of the filet . 
the example his wording Present , health Act to the tax Act the Income not can not heed account the foreign réalités of them practices of health management forestière and the foreign délais nécessaires yeas that series exploitation puisse réaliser of them bénéfices . 
transport associations of owners of lots Woodlot étudient Act question since 1988 . 
they affirment that royal résistance at the change at laquelle they acclaimed been confrontés lors of them premières years ago fact place , at the Department of them Finance and at the Department of the Revenue attain , at series compréhension reasonable of the problem . 
health issue has been dûment examinée by différents committees of health House of them Commons , by Act Table ronde national Act the Environment and the economy and , dernièrement , by our own Subcommittee - Committee chargé of And Act forêt boréale . 
honourable senators , he we tangibly obtain Act cooperation of them owners of lots Woodlot if we voulons adhere them commitments that we awakened commitments streets the Protocole of Kyoto and streets the bill announced the législation Act them cash fell péril at the Canada , and their give series policy fiscale fondée , who them encourage at reboiser their terrains and at redoubler of efforts yeas well gérer their lands . 
he is grandfather time that we réglions what problem . 
i request instamment at the minister of them Finance - mener at well what Bill No. 
the Late of Claude Masson 
tribute 
the Honourable Fernand Roberge : 
Claude guardian a man simple , well streets dapper peau , always the good mood and respecté by ses pairs . 
he guardian also a man of faith , engagé socialement , a professionnel , bref , a man copy . 
his departure is series grande loss yeas Position Presse and the milieu journalistic québécois , analyzed that yeas Act society fell General . 
we offrons our condolences at dapper family and at them families of them other 107 streets what terrible accident . 
health defence national 
health recognition of them missions of maintien of health peace at the abroad 
the Honourable Douglas Roche : 
honourable senators , I ai trouvé strange that , lors of dapper first visit official at the Canada , lord George Robertson , the nouveau Secretary General of the NATO , critique them Estimates military of the Canada Robbie that he ignorait apparemment that foreign troops Forces who servent them interests of health peace streets the world are now more nombreuses that thin not the acclaimed been since Act War of Korea . 
transport forces Forces - maintien of health peace comptent Incidence them more prééminentes and Oceans more efficaces at the world . 
fell what months of November , profitons - fell yeas tribute tribute fell particular at them 108 Canadians who acclaimed lost Act life fell servant Act security and health peace internationales at the surveillance of them 40 dernières years . 
their contribution at the soulagement of health souffrance humaine is invaluable . 
transport Canadians savent that the maintien of health peace is series caractéristique marquante of our country . 
we devons well understand that our forces Armed jouent a role important streets Act promotion of our interests at the abroad , damned that authorized Act way whose we them définissons . 
travaillant streets of them conditions astreignantes dépassant everything what that til can apply conceive and éloignés of their family during the very longues périodes , business members of them forces Forces - maintien of health peace are déployés fell standpoint of changer really them things and the veiller at Act promotion and at the maintien of series réelle security . 
the foreign Canadians apply are battus and are dead yeas defend Act security and health freedom . 
our efforts continuels fell standpoint of ensure Act security streets the world constitute a tribute at their sacrifice and confirment unabated noble tradition . 
our forces of maintien of health peace not deserve not least . 
honourable senators , yeas what who is the foreign fund consacrés at Act reconstruction streets them Balkans , where Act War not has shirts that ruines , and streets of other regions of the world , who repositories apply equation of them consequences of health War , the Canada not has referred recevoir of lessons of persons . 
streets them operations of combat , what not is not that the Canada dépense too little , what is that foreign other countries , there including individuals summarizing country of the NATO , dépensent too . 
transport languages Languages 
postponement of health date of the tabling of the report annual of the commissioner 
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier : 
honourable senators , the 4 October last , health Commissioner at them languages Languages exprimait , streets series letter adressée at our chairman , his intention of Extend the tabling of his report annual , the manner at couvrir dorénavant Act period correspondant at the year fiscale rather than at the year civile . 
health Act Act them languages Languages not is not claire Act them modalités of the tabling of what report annual . 
however , the article 37 of health Act to interpretation déclare that royal teachings of year apply étend Act blunt period of 12 months . 
unabated decision privera them communaut linguistic minoritaires and the committee Joint Standing of health House of them Commons and the Government Senate to them languages Languages of a report and the one tool very précieux and very important . 
the crime of trafic of êtres humans 
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk : 
honourable senators , everywhere streets the world , the foreign persons apply Cutbacks enlever , contraindre , attraper and sell streets the framework of what that til appelle populairement Act " traite World of them esclaves " . 
transport victims are usually of them women , the foreign daughters and the foreign garçons who are forcés of vivre streets of them situations of exploitation sexual and economic at the profit from recruteurs , the trafiquants and the organizations criminelles . 
fell 1997 , the ONU évaluait à4 million the number of them persons who étaient victims of a pareil trafic at the échelle World , whose the bénéfice net pouvait achieve 7 billion to $ by year . 
the Canada not is not at the abri of telles activities . 
the fall last , til has discovered at Toronto a network of prostitution , between other , constitué of women asiatiques . 
the trafic of êtres humans , the same that foreign nombreuses activities whose apply accompagne what kind of crime , commentator Act prostitution , health séquestration and the agression , are toutes of them activities illégales at the Canada . 
despite them conventions internationales interdisant Act traite of them esclaves humans , what kind of activité criminelle is fell hausse . 
confirms apply explique fell part because that he is relatively easy to make the trafic of êtres humans . 
often , business persons faisant the objet of trafic not apply rendent not account that thin are fell danger and traversent volontairement Act border yeas entrer streets a another country . 
he is less probable that foreign agents of health peace fassent of them arrestations streets them case of trafic of êtres humans that streets them case of smuggling of drug and the weapons at gun . 
he is tragic of constater that the grandfather case that the snakes fact of them young assure series request constante yeas make the nouvelles recrues chez them women more young and Oceans children . 
the trafic of êtres humans présente a risk yeas Act security , car them bénéfices réalisés thanks at the exploitation of êtres humans servent often at financer them organizations criminelles . 
fell Asia , streets Act region of the Mékong , the trafic of them êtres humans rivalise now the interest with the trafic of drug at them yeux of the crime organized . 
the same , streets of other regions instables , commentator streets the ancienne Union Soviet , business women and Oceans children are particularly vulnerable at bearer regard . 
the Canada doit travailler at prevent certaines organizations of apply serve the Government Canada commentator of a instead of Donor of funds yeas the funding for activities criminelles . 
fell 1949 , the Assembly générale of them Nations Nations approuvait Act Convention yeas Act repression and the abolition of health traite of them êtres humans and the Government exploitation of health prostitution of autrui . 
the Canada not has always not ratifié unabated convention fell dépit of the fact that she authorized entrée fell vigueur fell 1949 . 
fell June 2000 , til célébrera the fifth anniversary of health Declaration of Beijing . 
the one of them objectives strategic of the Program of Action of Beijing is the éliminer Act traite of them women and the help them victims of health violence due at Act prostitution and at Act traite . 
he is essentiel that the Canada envisage of ratify and the appliquer unabated convention international . 
fault of whereupon , the Canada manquerait at ses commitments at the hook of them Nations Nations and , who more is , manquerait at ses commitments at the hook of these million for persons who are fell danger . 
i urge the government ' s Canada and Oceans senators at see at what that the Canada ratifie unabated convention before the fifth anniversary of health Declaration of Beijing . 
the Mois of the osteoporosis 
the Honourable Vivienne Poy : 
honourable senators , November is the Mois of the osteoporosis at the Canada . 
the osteoporosis is series illness débilitante caractérisée by series low masse osseuse , who entraîne series more grande fragilité of them os and the foreign risks of fractures . 
the fact that unabated illness authorized courante chez them persons seniors has the foreign consequences graves yeas our country . 
approximately 1.4 million for Canadians souffrent currently the osteoporosis and 2 million for more risquent of fell perhaps atteints a day . 
the osteoporosis frappe series wife Act four of more de50 years and a man Act eight streets what same group of age . 
the treatment of the osteoporosis coûte 1,3 1.1 of $ by 2000 at the Canada . 
the education and health prevention arresting make series difference profonde fell what who pertains the osteoporosis . 
fell reason for the lack of sensibilisation and the education translated , much of persons apprennent that thin are atteintes of osteoporosis when he is already overburdened later . 
health diminution of health densité osseuse apply product silencieusement at the incorrigible of them years , well before the devenir apparente . 
when series fracture apply product , the evil is already avancé and perhaps apply traduire by the foreign lésions at Act colonne vertébrale , at Act hanche or at the poignet . 
the osteoporosis is almost always irréversible . 
transport fractures ostéoporotiques are generally débilitantes and diminuent grandement Act quality of life of them persons touchées . 
today today , we fell connaissons more than ever Act Act prevention of the osteoporosis , series illness considérée streets the world entier commentator a important problem of health . 
we constituer of them os solides blocks them premières years of health life is series of them things them more importantes that we puissions make . 
he is also important to us ensure the wheel suffisamment of calcium streets our regime alimentaire , the same that the make regularly of the fiscal , mostly of them sports of implementation fell charge commentator Act marche , health course , the tennis and the badminton . 
he existe now the foreign tests who permettent a dépistage précoce of them persons at risk . 
we pouvons reduce considérablement the number of persons who développeront the osteoporosis if we prenons of them measures to prevention and the sensibilisation . 
the Canada doit make Evidence of leadership fell élaborant a framework exhaustif of prevention , the diagnosed and the treatment of unabated illness incapacitante . 
the kind of leadership whose I parle is conforme at Act strategy énoncée streets the speech of the Trône , the month last , and demandant Act creation of instituts Airports of research fell health . 
these instituts visent at Camera of them researchers who faces intéressent at Act health and at établir of them priorities fell matière of research conjointe . 
the osteoporosis doit compter Incidence our priorities fell matière of research fell health if we voulons rehausser Act quality of life of them Canadians , étant rose mostly the vieillissement of health population at the surveillance of them prochaines decades . 
the rate of osteoporosis can perhaps considérablement reduced if we envisageons of them measures to prevention at term term . 
honourable senators , afin of accroître Act sensibilisation at unabated importante question of health , I you convie all , analyzed that our colleagues on health House , at prendre the thé with moi and Oceans representatives of health Corporation - Government osteoporosis of the Canada , tomorrow afternoon - afternoon , between 16 hours and 18 hours , streets Act Room 237 - C - Government Block of the Centre . 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
the commissioner at Act protection of health life privacy 
depository of the report annual 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to déposer the report annual of the commissioner at Act protection of health life privacy yeas Act period apply terminantle 31 March 1999 . 
the Clerk of the Senate 
depository of them comptes annuels 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to you inform that , pursuant at the article 133 of the rules of the Senate , the Clerk of the Senate has tabled Act the Bureau a état détaillé of ses revenues and the ses payments yeas the fiscal financier 1998 - 99 . 
routine Foreign 
depository of the Prime report of the committee 
the Honourable John B . Stewart : 
( the text of the report consigned at them Journals of the Senate to today today . ) 
transport consequences of the Union Monetary European 
Presented of the report of the committee of them Affairs Foreign demandant the Authorized to engager of the staff 
the Honourable John B . Stewart , President of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign , présente the report suivant : 
the Tuesday 2 November 1999 
the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign has the honour to introduce his 
DEUXIÈME REPORT 
your Comité , who has been authorized by the Sénatle Thursday 14 October 1999 , pursuant at the article 86 ( 1 ) 1:30 ) the Government Rules , at And and at make report Act them consequences yeas the Canada ' s émergence of the Union Monetary European and based on other subjects connexes fell matière of Commerce and the investment request respectfully that the Comité authorized authorized at retenir them services of lawyers , the advisors techniques and the everything another staff jugé necessary at them purposes of his inquiry . 
pursuant at the article 2:07 of them Directives régissant the funding for them Comités of the Senate , the budget presented at the Comité Standing of health Economy Internal , the foreign Budgets and the Government administration analyzed that the report apply there rapportant , are annexés at the présent report . 
respectfully submitted , 
the chairman , 
JOHN B . STEWART 
( the text of the Printed consigned at them Journals of the Senate to today today , appendix " A " , 555 
72 ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when étudierons - we what report ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Stewart , the study of the report is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement . ) 
routine Foreign 
health Modified of the mandate of the Organization of the Traité of the Atlantic North - Considered of the report budgétaire of the committee regarding the study 
the Honourable John B . Stewart , President of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign , présente the report suivant : 
the Tuesday 2 November 1999 
the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign has the honour to introduce his 
TROISIÈME REPORT 
your Comité , who has been authorized by the Sénatle Thursday 14 October 1999 , pursuant at the article 86 ( 1 ) 1:30 ) the Government Rules , at examiner yeas fell make report them ramifications yeas the Canada : 
the Day Modified apportée at the mandate of the Organization of the Traité of the Atlantic North ( NATO ) and at the role of the Canada streets the NATO since Act dissolution of the pacte of Varsovie , the Day end of health War Cold and the Government entrée récente streets the NATO of health Hongrie , the Day Poland and the Day Republic tchèque ; and 
2 . - Government maintien of health peace , mostly Act ability to the Canada ' there participate Subcommittee them auspices of not regardless breaching body international whose the Canada done part , demand respectfully that the Comité authorized authorized at retenir them services of lawyers , the advisors techniques of everyone else staff jugé necessary , and at apply déplacer at travers the Canada and at the abroad at them purposes of his inquiry . 
pursuant at the article 2:07 of them Directives régissant the funding for them Comités of the Senate , the budget presented at the Comité Standing of health Economy Internal , the foreign Budgets and the Government administration analyzed that the report apply there rapportant , are annexés at the présent report . 
respectfully submitted , 
the chairman , 
JOHN B . STEWART 
( the text of the Printed consigned at them Journals of the Senate to today today , appendix " B " , 555 
78 ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when étudierons - we what report ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Stewart , the study of the report is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement . ) 
the Comité of selection 
Presented of the third report 
the Honourable Léonce Mercier , President of the Comité of selection , présente the report suivant : 
the Tuesday 2 November 1999 
the Comité of selection has the honour to introduce his 
TROISIÈME REPORT 
pursuant at them sections 85 ( 1 ) has ) and 85 ( 2 ) the Government Rules of the Senate , your Comité informe the Senate that he remembered is réuni yeas discuss the Day appointment of a senator at the station of Speaker at title temporaire . 
your Comité not has not commitments to decision at what topic and he fera report at the Senate ultérieurement . 
respectfully submitted , 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when étudierons - we what report ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Mercier , the study of the report is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement . ) 
the Clerk of the Senate 
referred to them comptes annuels at the committee of health Economy Internal , the foreign Budgets and the Government administration 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
the adjournment 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the alinéa 58 ( 1 ) 1:30 ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that , when the Senate adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until at tomorrow , the Wednesday 3 November 1999 , at 1:30 1:30 30 . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
the speech of the Trône 
the adresse fell response - Possibility end of the debate on eighth day to postponement - Notice of Motion 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that tomorrow , the Wednesday 3 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that foreign deliberations at the Order of the day yeas Act resuming the Government debate Act Act motion Refer at the adoption of series Adresse fell response at the speech of the Trône , prononcé by His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale appeared them two Houses of the Parliament , run terminent the eighth day to postponement where the Order fingertips been débattu . 
health law Act the casier judicial 
bill to Bill Amend - Première Reading 
his Honour the Speaker announcement that he has received from them Communes a message accompagné of the bill to Bill C - 7 , Act amend Act Act Act the casier judicial and series another act fell consequential . 
( the bill to Bill is read series first once . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series second once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Hays , health second reading of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to the Thursday 4 November 1999 . ) 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
first Reading 
his Honour the Speaker announcement that he has received from them Communes a message accompagné of the bill to Bill C - 6 , Act visant at facilitate and at promote the trade électronique fell protégeant them information personnels recueillis , utilisés or releases streets certaines circumstances , fell prévoyant the utilisation of afford électroniques yeas communiquer or enregistrer of the information and the foreign transactions and fell amend Act Act Act Act Evidence at the Canada , health Act Act them textes réglementaires and health Act Act Act révision of them laws 
( the bill to Bill is read series first once . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series second once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Hays , health second reading of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to the Thursday 4 November 1999 . ) 
bill to Bill of 1999 yeas Act implementation fell implementation of conventions fiscales 
first Reading 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) présente the bill to Bill S - 3 , Act mettant fell implementation a agreed , the foreign conventions and the foreign protocoles conclus between the Canada and the Kyrghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , health Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzbékistan , health Jordanie , the Japan and the Luxembourg , fell standpoint of avoid them duplicates impositions and the prévenir the evasion fiscale fell matière of taxes Act the Income . 
( the bill to Bill is read series first once . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series second once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Hays , health second reading of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to the Thursday 4 November 1999 . ) 
bill to Bill Act them perquisitions and Oceans saisies internationales 
first Reading 
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin présente the bill deloi S - 4 , Act instituant the Authorized judicial préalable at them demandes of perquisitions or the saisies at the outside of the Canada appeared perhaps présentées at series organization or autorité étrangère or international . 
( the bill to Bill is read series first once ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series second once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Nolin , health second reading of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to the Thursday 4 November 1999 . ) 
health Act Act the Parliament of the Canada 
bill to Bill Amend - Première Reading 
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein présente the bill deloi S - 5 , Act amend Act Act Act the Parliament of the Canada ) poète cc of the Parliament ) . 
( the bill to Bill is read series first once . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series second once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Grafstein , health deuxièmelecture of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the jourdu Thursday 4 November 1999 . ) 
the Code criminal 
bill to Bill Amend - Première Reading 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to introduce , at the phase of health first Reading , the bill to Bill S - 6 , Act amend the Code criminal relatively at the harassment criminal and at the other subjects connexes . 
what Bill of Bill is identique at the bill to Bill S - 17 who is death at the Paper Questions Act end of health dernière session Parliamentary . 
( the bill to Bill is read series first once . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series second once ? 
the senator Oliver : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the alinéa 57 ( 1 ) f ) the Government Rules , I move that royal second reading of the bill to Bill authorized inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement of the Senate . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , health leave is - she granted ? 
the Honourable Anne C . Cools : 
pourrais - I savoir why he tangibly ask Act leave ? 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave not is not granted . 
the senator Cools : 
honourable senators , I am curieuse . 
i am prête at give Act leave if I dispel savoir why . 
when business parrains of a bill to Bill demandent Act leave of the Senate , business senators devraient savoir why they the Cutbacks . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
hon. Senator Cools , I regret , but he not can not there wheel of debate Act Act motion . 
however , if what is series question of information , what is everything at fact légitime , if the Senate is the agreement . 
we awakened already strokes of them situations where a senator demandait Act leave and a another senator voulait savoir why . 
honourable senators , souhaitez - you that royal question authorized posée ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Oliver : 
til has heard a certain number of witnesses and til has consigné of them testimony . 
i voudrais perhaps fell measure of parler of dictatorship , the say if yes or non til can considérer that these testimony acclaimed already been entendus streets the framework of the study of the bill to Bill that I viens of introduce . 
i voudrais make confirms tomorrow . 
the senator Cools : 
the agreement . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Oliver , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the alinéa 57 ( 1 ) f ) the Government Rules , health second reading of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement . ) 
bill to Bill Act Act Assent Royal 
first Reading 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) présente the bill to Bill S - 7 , Act relative at them modalités of octroi by Act Gouverneure générale , at the name of Majesty Majesty , the Day Assent Royal at them bills of Bill adoptés by foreign Houses of the Parliament . 
( the bill to Bill is read series first once . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series second once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Lynch - Staunton , health second reading of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to health postponement of the Thursday 4 November 1999 . ) 
health Act Act the Immigration 
bill to Bill Amend - Première Reading 
the Honourable Ron Ghitter présente the bill to Bill S - 8 , Act amend Act Act Act the Immigration . 
( the bill to Bill is read series first once . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series second once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Ghitter , health second reading of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to health séancedu Thursday 4 November 1999 ) . 
the Code criminal Position Act Act the system Correctional and health implementation fell freedom Subcommittee condition 
bill to Bill Amend - Première Reading 
his Honour the Speaker announcement that he has received from them Communes a message accompagné of the bill to Bill C - 247 , Act amend the Code criminal and health Act Act the system Correctional and health implementation fell freedom Subcommittee condition ( peines consécutives ) . 
( the bill to Bill is read series first once . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series second once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Cools , health second reading of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to health séancedu Tuesday 9 November 1999 . ) 
the Senate 
depository of the report of health delegation of the Senate fell Republic Kirghize 
the Honourable Nicholas W . Taylor : 
routine Foreign 
notice of Motion visant at autoriser the committee at engager of the staff 
the Honourable John B . Stewart : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that tomorrow , the Wednesday 3 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign authorized habilité at retenir them services of advisors , techniciens , employees of office or other elements nécessaires yeas examiner them bills of Bill , health seams of them bills of Bill and Oceans forecasts budgétaires who him acclaimed been renvoyés . 
notice of Motion visant at autoriser the committee at permettre Act diffusion électronique of ses travaux 
the Honourable John B . Stewart : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that tomorrow , the Wednesday 3 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign authorized habilité at permettre the reportage of ses deliberations translated by foreign media of information électroniques , fell dérangeant the least possible ses travaux . 
review of health policy canadienne antidrogues 
notice of Motion autorisant Act training of a committee sénatorial Special 
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that , the Thursday 4 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that a committee Special of the Senate authorized formé afin of reassess them laws and Oceans political Forces antidrogues , the consult abondamment Act population canadienne yeas determine them needs spécifiques of them différentes regions of the country later particularly là where them problems Cultural liés at the trafic and at the usage of them drogues illicites are them more manifestes , the élaborer of them proposals yeas diffuser blunt information relative at Act policy canadienne antidrogues and , finally , the produire of them recommendations yeas fell arriver at the adoption of series strategy antidrogues implementation at the standpoint by and yeas them Canadians encourageant all levels paliers of government at travailler fell canvas collaboration at Act reduction of them méfaits liés at Act consumption of drogues illicites . 
without that what who suit ait yeas effect of restreindre his mandate , that the committee authorized authorized at : 
perhaps réexaminer the approach adoptée by the government federal yeas combattre Act consumption of drogues illicites at the Canada , his effectiveness commentator moyen of reduce them effects of health consumption of stupéfiants and health measure streets laquelle his application is fair ; 
perhaps élaborer series policy national of reduction of them méfaits afin of atténuer them impacts négatifs of health consumption of drogues illicites at the Canada and make the foreign recommendations Act Act way of appliquer unabated policy , notamment Act possibility of considérer before everything the usage and the abus of drogues commentator a problem socio - sanitaire ; 
perhaps And them models of reduction of them méfaits adoptés by the other countries and determine , run he rereads aurait instead , the foreign appliquer partiellement ou intégralement , at the Canada ; 
perhaps examiner the role and Oceans obligations internationales who incombent at the Canada fell vertu of them conventions of them Nations Nations Act them stupéfiants , the Day Declaration universelles of them Droits of the man and the Canadian other treaties connexes afin of determine whether these treaties the autorisent at prendre of them measures other than them poursuites criminelles and health pénalisation of them Offenders at the échelle international ; 
perhaps explorer them effects of the cannabis Act Act health and And Act question of savoir if the Employment of political alternatives at the topic of the usage of the cannabis conduirait at series increase the Government usage and the Government abus at court and at term term ; 
perhaps And Act possibility that the government use of the power to regulatory that wouldn confère Act Act Act them contraventions commentator moyen Supplementary of appliquer series policy of reduction of them méfaits commentator he is the usage streets of other juridictions ; 
perhaps And blunt another question relative at Act policy canadienne antidrogues that the committee Justice approprié yeas accomplir his mandate . 
that the committee Special authorized composed of five senators and that the quorum authorized to three members ; 
that the committee ait the power to make subpoenas of them persons and the produire of them documents , the hear from them witnesses , the make report of time at other and the make imprimer at the day the day documents , mémoires and testimony according them instructions of the committee ; 
that foreign mémoires reçus and Oceans testimony entendus lors of the examination of the bill to Bill C - 8 , Act Convey Act Act regulatory of certaines drogues and the their précurseurs analyzed that the other substances by the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional durant Act second session of health trente fifth législature soient déférés at the committee ; 
that the committee authorized habilité at autoriser , run he the judge opportun , health radiodiffusion , health télédiffusion and health diffusion by the biais of them media électroniques of health totalité or the genus part of ses deliberations and the foreign informations that he détient ; 
that the committee authorized authorized at sit during Senators ajournements of the Senate fell vertu of the paragraph 95 ( 2 ) the Government Rules of the Senate ; 
that the committee présente his report final at the most later three years after Act date of dapper creation . 
the Evolution and health mondialisation 
notice of inquiry 
the Honourable rald - A . 
honourable senators , I gives notice that , the Tuesday 9 November 1999 , I porterai at the attention of the Senate , at Act light of them debates who acclaimed strokes instead at the opportunity to the Forum of them fédérations , business grands principles of the Evolution modern . 
review of health Act canadienne Act Act protection of the Environment 
notice of Motion 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that , the Thursday 4 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Senate urge the government at entreprendre Act - Government - champ his review of health Act canadienne Act Act protection of the Environment and at confier Act first phase of bearer review at the committee sénatorial Standing of the energy , the Government environment and the foreign resources Natural . 
office of salubrité of the Environment yeas them children 
notice of Motion constitutive 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that , the Wednesday 3 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Senate urge the government at instituer a office of salubrité of the Environment yeas them children , authorized a body autonome chargé of promote Act protection of them children against foreign risks environnementaux . 
health defence national 
notice of Motion Convey creation of a committee sénatorial Special chargé of examiner Act conduct of the staff at the surveillance of health mission fell Somalia and health destruction of dossiers médicaux of the staff fell mission fell Croatia 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that , the 16 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that a committee Special of the Senate authorized constitué afin of enquêter and the make report Act two questions importantes who touchent Act conduct of health chain of command of them Forces Forces , autant streets them operations Act the théâtre that at the quartier General of health Défense national : what is - at - say dapper reaction at them problems opérationnels , décisionnels and administratifs who faces are manifestés at the surveillance of the deployment to forces fell Somalia , streets Act measure where these issues not acclaimed not been approfondies by Act Commission of inquiry Act the deployment to them Forces Forces fell Somalia ; and Oceans allegations according lesquelles of them troops Forces acclaimed been exposées at the foreign substances toxiques fell Croatia between 1993 and 1995 - even that foreign allegations of destruction of them dossiers médicaux of military envoyés fell Croatia ; 
that the committee , streets the examination of them questions précédentes , authorized habilité at interroger of them witnesses who , according him , palatable contributing at the déroulement of the inquiry , notamment , but non exclusively : 
the Present Minister of health Défense , understandings at them two questions spécifiées ; 
2 . - Veterans ministers of health Défense , understandings at them two questions spécifiées ; 
4 . the Opposition of cabinet by intérim of the minister of health Défense national at the époque , understandings at them incidents survenus fell Somalia ; 
6 . the Ethics Special of the minister of health Défense national at the époque ( J . 
Dixon ) , understandings at them incidents survenus fell Somalia ; 
7 . them persons rose occupé the station of Justice - lawyer General during Act period concernée , understandings at them incidents survenus fell Somalia ; 
8 . the judge - lawyer General Deputy - Litiges at the époque , understandings at them incidents survenus fell Somalia ; and 
9 . the Opposition of état - major of health Défense and the subamendment - chief of état - major of health Défense at the époque , understandings at them two questions spécifiées . 
that seven senators nommés by the committee of selection remplissent them duties of members of the committee Special , and that three constitute the quorum ; 
that the committee authorized authorized at convoquer of them persons , at make produire of them documents and the foreign dossiers , at hear from them witnesses assermentés , at make report of time at another and at make imprimer at the day the day documents and testimony according them instructions of the committee ; 
that the committee authorized habilité at autoriser , run he the judge opportun , health radiodiffusion and health télédiffusion of health totalité or the genus part of ses deliberations ; 
that the committee authorized authorized at retenir them services of advisors , professionals , techniciens , employees of office or the other persons nécessaires , yeas the help at mener his study ; 
that foreign parties political représentés at the committee Special reçoivent series allocation yeas Act contribution to experts at them travaux of the committee ; 
that the committee authorized authorized at voyager at the intérieur and at the outside of the Canada ; 
that the committee authorized authorized at sit during Senators sittings and Oceans congés of the Senate ; 
that the committee soumette his report a 2000 at the most after dapper training and that , if the Senate not seat not at the moment where the report is tabled , gerrymandering - ci authorized considéré commentator rose been tabled the day where he is 3.25 at the Clerk of the Senate . 
the funding for the post post 
notice of inquiry 
the Honourable Norman K . Atkins : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that , the Thursday 4 November 1999 , I attirerai the attention of the Senate Act the funding for the post post at the Canada , particularly Act part of the funding that supportent them students , fell standpoint of élaborer of them political who viseront at amoindrir the burden of them debts of them students at the level post at the Canada . 
health Conférence Act the equality of them women and their participation at Act life Public 
notice of inquiry 
the Honourable Lorna Milne : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that , the Thursday 4 November 1999 , I attirerai the attention of the Senate Act ma participation récente at the 70e anniversary of the affair " person " , streets the framework of health Conférence Act the equality of them women and their participation at Act life Public at the Canada and at the Kingdom - Kingdom , who faces is tenue them 21 and 22 October 1999 , at London , fell England . 
transport Canadians éminents and their role at the Kingdom - Kingdom 
notice of inquiry 
the Honourable Anne C . Cools : 
honourable senators , pursuant at them paragraphes 56 ( 1 ) , 56 ( 2 ) and 57 ( 2 ) the Government Rules , I gives notice that Thursday next , the 4 November 1999 , I attirerai the attention of the Senate Act : 
has ) Senators persons nées at the Canada who acclaimed sat at Act House of them Commons to the Kingdom - Kingdom , there including the natif of the Ontario Edward Blake , Minister of health Howe of the Canada ' 1875 at 1877 and chief of the Party Liberal of the Canada ' 1880 at 1887 , the natif of the Brunswick - Brunswick the very hon. Bonar Law , Prime Minister of the Kingdom - Kingdom of 1922 at 1923 , and the natif of the Ontario Sir Bryant Irvine , Vice - chairman of health House of them Commons to the Kingdom - Kingdom of 1976 at 1982 ; 
b ) Senators persons nées at the Canada who acclaimed sat at Act House of them Lords of the Kingdom - Kingdom , there including the trèshon. Richard B . Bennett , Prime Minister of the Canada ' 1930 at 1935 , and lord Beaverbrook , Minister of the Kingdom - Kingdom fell 1918 and the 1940 at 1942 ; 
c ) Senators britanniques of birth nés at the Kingdom - Kingdom or streets them dominions and colonies who acclaimed sat at the Senate and at Act House of them Commons to the Canada , there including the trèshon. John Turner , Prime Minister fell 1984 and chief of the Opposition libérale of 1984 at 1990 , and moi - even , Senator noire fell fiscal Manitoulin streets them Antilles britanniques ; 
d ) Senators persons of citizenship canadienne who acclaimed fact part of the Council private of the Kingdom - Kingdom , there including individuals premiers ministers of the Canada , business judges fell Opposition of health Court Supreme and some ministers Airports whose the Leader of the government at the Senate to 1921 at 1930 and the 1935 at 1942 , the trèshon. Senator Raoul Dandurand , who has been appointed at the Council private of the Kingdom - Kingdom fell 1941 ; 
e ) Act resolution Nickle of 1919 , series motion of health House of them Commons to the Canada fell standpoint of series adresse at Majesty Majesty the roi George V , and Oceans propos that the Prime Minister R . B . Bennett has referendums fell 1934 at his topic : 
" what guardian also inefficace fell right that possible . 
nay only what guardian inefficace , but what guardian also , I regret to the say , a affront at the souverain him ? same . 
no regardless breaching lawyer of right constitutional or quiconque apply gives Act peine of And unabated question apply fell rend well account . " ; 
f ) Senators propos that the Prime Minister R . B . Bennett has referendums fell 1934 streets series letter at the Member J . R . MacNicol : 
" activist that I resterai citizen of the empire britannique and loyal topic of the roi , I dissenting reconnaître at the souverain Act prerogative of reconnaître them services of ses subjects . " 
g ) Senators nombreux distingués Canadians who acclaimed since 1919 received from them honneurs of the roi or the Day reine of the Canada , there including the élévation at the Order of health chevalerie fell 1934 of Sir Lyman Duff , Judge fell Opposition of health Court Supreme of the Canada , fell 1935 of Sir Ernest MacMillan , musicien , fell 1986 - Sir Bryant Irvine , Parliamentary , fell 1994 of Sir Neil Shaw , industriel , and fell 1994 of Sir Conrad Swan , advisor to the Prime Minister Pearson at the topic of the flag attain of the Canada ; 
1:30 ) Senators nombreux distingués Canadians who acclaimed received 646 honneurs and décorations of souverains étrangers non britanniques and non Airports between 1919 and February 1929 ; 
i ) Act Position legal and BNA of them Canadians to birth and the citizenship regarding their aptitude or their inaptitude at sit at Act House of them Lords and either at Act House of them Commons to the Kingdom - Kingdom , notamment them Canadians domiciliés at the Kingdom - Kingdom and jouissant of health double citizenship of the Canada and the Government Kingdom - Kingdom ; 
j ) Act Position legal and BNA of them Canadians domiciliés at the country or at the abroad regarding their right to recevoir of them honneurs and the foreign distinctions of their own souverain , health reine Elizabeth II of the Canada , analyzed that their right to recevoir of them honneurs and the foreign distinctions of souverains other than the their , there including the souverain of health France the honour to the Ordre royal of health Légion of honour ; 
k ) Senators honneurs , business distinctions and Oceans décorations who never are not héréditaires commentator Act pairie at life , the élévation at the Order of health chevalerie and Oceans ordres military and the chevalerie ; 
l ) Act recommendation by the Prime Minister britannique Tony Blair at Majesty Majesty Act reine Elizabeth II Convey of appointing commentator member non héréditaire of health House of them Lords Conrad Black , a distingué publisher and entrepreneur Heritage and Colonel Honorary of them Governor General' Maclean Foot Guards of the Canada . 
the access at them data of the census 
Presented of petitions 
the Honourable Lorna Milne : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to introduce series petition the Government Ontario Genealogical Society who has been signée by cent persons and who asks fell part rejecting : 
... them petitioners prient the Parliament of adopt series bill afin of préserver them data of them recensements of after 1901 , the foreign withdraw the foreign Archives nationales and the allegiances these data and celles of them recensements ultérieurs at Act provision of the public at the bout of 92 years , what who is currently conforme at them nombreuses provisions legislatures Act Act protection of them information personnels and at them délais currently fell vigueur . 
transport travaux of the Senate 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I ferai series statement earlier later today today at the topic of the Points at the rules that the senator Lynch - Staunton has soulevé the another day . 
however , I voudrais saisir unabated opportunity yeas consigned some problems that pose our rules . 
however , I cannot think not that what authorized what that the Senate souhaite . 
i veux simply consigned that he tangibly corriger these anomalies streets our rules . 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
the Agency canadienne of them customs and the Government income 
transport changes to health Benefit fiscale national yeas children - Comments effects Act them prestataires 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
the spring last , I ai attiré the attention of the Senate Act a défaut of structure of health Prestation fiscale national yeas children streets the case of them families at low income rose more of three children . 
bye the intent of the Leader of the government , I vais exposer of nouveau the problem . 
fell 2001 , the government paving éliminer progressivement Act Prestation fiscale national yeas children according a rate of récupération of 11p. cent yeas them families rose a child , the 19,7p. cent yeas them families rose two children and the 27,6p. cent yeas them families of three children or more . 
voyons what who arrivera at series mother Opposition of family of four children who 21.2 at Halifax , fell Nova Scotia Nova , and whose the Income familial is the 30 40,000 Expenditures , if she has Act possibility of gagner cent Expenditures fell faisant of them hours additional , series once that foreign derniers changes auront been apportés at Act Benefit fell 2001 . 
honourable senators , I vais you lire few figures . 
i ai already 3.25 copy of these figures at the Leader yeas that he puisse me suivre . 
he rereads has ensuite them appropriation of tax subordonnés at the Income . 
honourable senators , streets the speech of the Trône , the government has announced series bonification of two billion to $ of health Prestation national yeas children , business details appeared perhaps releases ultérieurement . 
the Leader of the government can - he we say if the government has the intent of examiner seriously combien totalisent them différents taxes and Oceans impotent récupérées before the propose ses dernières changes at Act Prestation national yeas children ? 
the government can - he give at the Senate Committee insurance that he réglera unabated iniquité particularly grave yeas them residents of health Nova Scotia Nova ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I thank the senator Oliver on me wheel 3.25 series copy of these calculs a little before mon arrival at the Senate . 
i know that the senator has referred heart the example that he has rose . 
i am pleased that the senator ait mentioned the increase Annual of two billion to $ of health Prestation fiscale national yeas children who has been prévue streets them derniers Budgets , analyzed that the assistance Annual of close to 7 billion to $ whose business families bénéficieront thanks at unabated Benefit , at compter of July 2000 . 
the Honourable Senator has recognized confirms , and we ourselves entendons all sides yeas say that he remembered notional là of series measure self very importante . 
i voudrais also add that , yeas series family who account two children , health Benefit maximale is the 3 750 Expenditures , what who represents series increase the 48p. cent by report at Act Benefit maximale of 1996 . 
i know that the Honourable Senator apply réjouit of them progress that we awakened accomplis . 
honourable senators , he me intéressera certes of parler of the example precise . 
i am course that the government tiendra account the all levels factors that the senator has mentionnés . 
yeas what who pertains bearer example particular , I vais me enquérir auprès of them various parties and I puis ensure at the senator that dapper préoccupation arranged transmise at them authorities pertinentes . 
the senator Oliver : 
the minister conviendra certes with moi that , when series mother of four children who essaie of gagner cent Expenditures of more apply retrouve with only 16,84 Expenditures , the government doit make something something yeas try to supprimer of them provisions of récupération . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I am the agreement with the senator . 
we cannot voulons certes not décourager series mother Gotcha of four children streets unabated situation of try to gagner cent Expenditures of more . 
streets toutes them retenues who acclaimed been signalées , I me request if health cotisation at the Régime of Pension Plan the Canada , by example , run applies at all levels niveaux of income or apply he rereads has a level of income maximal au - delà duquel she never apply applies not . 
commentator I cannot prétends not perhaps a spécialiste fell Act matière , I voudrais power fell discuss with the foreign persons averties . 
i approuve certes the spirit of the observation that présente the senator . 
transport Nations Nations 
the désarmement nucléaire - Possibility policy of the government opposite at Act resolution of health York Agenda Coalition 
the Honourable Douglas Roche : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate , that I brevity yeas dapper appointment and at which I souhaite everything the success possible . 
the 19 April last , streets dapper response at the report of the committee Standing of them Affairs Foreign and the Government trade international , the government ' s Canada apply engageait at travailler with Act York Agenda Coalition yeas achieve some objectives fell matière of désarmement nucléaire . 
the 26 October last , health York Agenda Coalition has presented series resolution at Act first commission of the Assembly générale of them Nations Nations . 
... at them States dotés of weapons nuclear of apply engager without équivoque at procéder promptement and fell totalité at the Elimination of their arsenaux nuclear and the entreprendre without tarder of them negotiations and the foreign mener at well quickly , parvenant analyzed at the désarmement nucléaire auquel they are referendums pursuant at the article VI of the Traité Act Act non - proliferation of them weapons nuclear . 
before that the minister not réponde , honourable senators , I voudrais , if you me the permettez , déposer streets them two languages Languages Act resolution that royal York Agenda Coalition has présentée at Act first commission of the Assembly générale of them Nations Nations Government 22 October 1999 . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave is - she granted yeas déposer Act statement ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I thank the Honourable Senator Roche of dapper question . 
i the thank also yeas what that he has said auparavant Act the role of the Canada streets them efforts of maintien of health peace streets the world . 
these commentaires crumpled particularly at standpoint . 
fell what who has trait at Act question précise that the Honourable Senator has posée , I am course that the minister of them Foreign Foreign and the Government Commerce international examinera soigneusement , fell time and instead , health Position of the government and that he Act rendra Public fell time voulu . 
i serai happy to health make connaître Robbie at the Honourable Senator . 
the senator Roche : 
fell analysant the text of health resolution , I cannot trouve nothing who authorized incompatible with Act policy of the government Heritage . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I me ferai a plaisir of prendre knowledge of health documentation that has déposée the Honourable Senator and the make share of ses observations at them ministers competent . 
health defence national 
the replacement of them helicopters Sea King 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , I ai several questions at poser at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
the senator Graham me manquera , but I you souhaite la welcome , dear , and you souhaite good luck . 
voilà specifically 1 196 days that the senator Graham me has promised that " very , very prochainement " , " incessamment " , " streets them few days at venir " , til annoncerait the replacement of them helicopters embarqués . 
yesterday , the minister of them Foreign Foreign has qualifié them Estimates accrues fell matière of advocacy of " ennuyeuses " . 
honourable senators , a marin very patient not could not perhaps évacué of his ship at the large of health Coast is the Day Nova Scotia Nova car the Sea King of the NCSM Fredericton not is not opérationnel , everything commentator the Sea King at bord of the NCSM Ville of Quebec , and that he not there has not to Sea King at Shearwater . 
the minister is - he ' agreed with the minister of them Foreign Foreign when gerrymandering - ci qualifie them Estimates for defence of ennuyeuses ? 
apply preoccupation he ' s well - perhaps the our military , who dépendent of a equipment course and fiable ? 
fell fact , he is almost immoral of laisser these avions steal . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
the senator Forrestall raises Act question of a marin who faces is trouvé streets series situation difficult . 
according condolences sources , what marin is fell train of apply restore vite at the hospital . 
however , confirms not répond not at Act question soulevée by the Honourable Senator . 
i ai strokes of them discussions with the minister of health Défense national , who me has précisé that the replacement of them helicopters is series absolue priority . 
i sharing certainly what standpoint of standpoint with the minister of health Défense national and I cannot ménagerai not condolences efforts yeas me assure that foreign mechanisms voulus soient fell place afin of substitute these helicopters . 
the senator Forrestall : 
honourable senators , I believe understand that the Leader of the government at the Senate apply is now engagé at consacrer autant of time at apply préoccuper of them problems auxquels Act Shipping fell particular doit make opposite that at try to redorer the blason Liberal streets our merveilleuse province . 
the West Nova Scotia Regiment - Possibility appointment of a Colonel Honorary 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , I voudrais poser series question Act a topic who remonte at almost three years . 
the West Nova Scotia Regiment attend since well more of two years Act appointment of a nouveau Colonel Honorary . 
confirms fact long that what regiment very coloré not has not to Colonel Honorary . 
if the minister not has not to information today today , and what could well perhaps the case , ses collaborateurs and him ? same palatable - they Auditing if unabated appointment can perhaps introductory the most quickly possible ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I prends at the sérieux them remontrances of the Honourable Senator who wants that we améliorions Act situation of health Shipping Act Act Coast Atlantic . 
yeas what who is the redorer the blason of the Party Liberal , however , I tiens at him say that foreign two things not are not necessarily contradictoires . 
fell what who has trait at the regiment whose parle the senator , I cannot saurais respond to fashion précise . 
i vais therefore prendre dapper question fell particulars and I him fournirai of them information at what topic more later . 
between - time , if the senator has the foreign suggestions at the topic of a Colonel Honorary , I serai happy to fell make share at them authorities compétentes . 
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire 
health crisis Farm at the Manitoba and fell Saskatchewan - Possibility visit to health delegation at Ottawa - Comments anomalies streets them statistics 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
honourable senators , business premiers ministers of the Manitoba and the Day Saskatchewan are flocked here at Ottawa yeas ask at the government ' venir fell assistance at them farmers . 
our Prime Minister and his government acclaimed fact savoir that according them statistics Act situation not serait not if mauvaise and that he not is therefore not necessary that the government accorde series assistance Supplementary at them farmers . 
however , these statistics not acclaimed not been communiquées at ceux who are flocked ask the Government assistance . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate could - he user of ses bons boards yeas apply ensure that the minister of the Agriculture rendra translated them statistics fell cause yeas that we puissions them examiner ? 
when I ai examined them statistics Convey Act Act Saskatchewan , thin me acclaimed semblé very claires and I am persuadée that the other uncovered of agreement with moi at what topic . 
commentator all the savent well , business costs of production are two once more élevés that foreign price of sale . 
the minister may - he we say if we pourrons a day see these data fantômes Act lesquelles the Prime Minister apply supports ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , the Prime Minister and the minister of the Agriculture acclaimed rencontré them premiers ministers of health Saskatchewan and the Government Manitoba analyzed that foreign delegations which foreign accompagnaient . 
he semblait there wheel series certaine confusion understandings at them figures Act lesquelles them two parties apply appuyaient . 
we tentons of rationaliser these data and I cannot dispel that présumer that foreign data rationalisées uncovered rendues translated soon . 
however , I cannot voudrais not laisser croire that , because that he rereads Partnerships divergence of opinions relatively at some figures fell cause , the government not envisagera not to other measures . 
what serait là series conclusion much too hâtive . 
the senator Spivak : 
honourable senators , the Prime Minister of ma province is rentré amèrement déçu . 
i know that a committee apply penche Act them figures . 
however , the assistance demandée by the Manitoba and health Saskatchewan guardian , commentator the minister ' knows perfectly , the 1,3 billion to $ . 
i ai déduit of them conversations that I ai eues with them persons who are venues see the Prime Minister , analyzed that the foreign reportages publiés streets Act press and the foreign documents publiés at Act subsequently of series fuite streets the National Post , whose we savons that he not apply trompe never , that the government not envisageait not to accorder series assistance to unabated importance , that at his opinion , she never guardian not necessary yeas régler Act crisis . 
fell fact , health response is a non without équivoque . 
the minister has he something something at us say today today who indiquerait that what not is not là the attitude of the government ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , the government has affecté something 900 million for $ at the program ACRA . 
transport provinces acclaimed fact series contribution to 600 million for $ . 
fell more of what amount , health delegation has asked series assistance Supplementary of 1,3 1.1 of $ . 
i think that everyone the world is the agreement là - dessus . 
health response to the government has been that he not pensait not that the snakes pouvait envisager series assistance to 1,3 1.1 of $ . 
i cannot think not that he ait changed the notice . 
however , he serait prématuré of conclude that aucune assistance not is disposable . 
health crisis Farm at the Manitoba and fell Saskatchewan - Comments doléances présentées at the Prime Minister 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
honourable senators , I know perfectly of whereupon parle the minister . 
i you transmets their standpoint of standpoint . 
bye the instar of other honourable , I me am personally entretenue with several delegations . 
they the acclaimed souhaité . 
gold , until at présent , nothing not we allows the croire that what arranged fact . 
the minister signalera he at the Prime Minister and at his cabinet that the morale is at the most bas , at the Manitoba ? 
transport residents of health province apply croient marginaux and little dignes of the attention granted at toutes them other regions of the country . 
i cannot am not to their notice . 
the minister fera he also share of the sentiment who commence at poindre at the Manitoba ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I garantis personally at the Honourable Senator that ses remarques uncovered rapportées at the Prime Minister at Act first opportunity . 
well that til ait alloué at the ACRA series somme of money importante , authorized something 1.5 1.1 of $ , and well that 36,949 40,000 demandes aient been reçues streets the framework of what program , he rereads has strokes of them complaints understandings at the fact that bearer money not has not been débloqué commentator he the aurait owed yeas respond efficacement at them needs . 
the foreign concerns acclaimed also been exprimées understandings at the fact that the amount alloué at what program could not not perhaps suffisant . 
toutes these remarques are prises at the sérieux . 
the government business examine with attention . 
health crisis Farm at the Manitoba and fell Saskatchewan - Ex effectiveness of the program of assistance fell case of catastrophe liée at the Income Farm 
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk : 
honourable senators , the Leader of the government at the Senate has indiqué that the ACRA works well . 
the message that we envoient them farmers to the West Heritage is that he remembered can that he works well elsewhere , but that he not convient not yeas régler them problems that familiar Act Saskatchewan and the Manitoba . 
what message has been Message at the Prime Minister federal by the one of them two premiers ministers provinciaux at the least . 
why Act request for remanier the ACRA présentée by the Manitoba and health Saskatchewan not has she not been reçue favorablement ? 
why has til fact espérer at them premiers ministers of these provinces that he rereads aurait of the nouveau ? 
why acclaimed - they been attirés at Ottawa yeas apply make say series once the most that the government allait And the affair ? 
after the foreign months of tergiversations , is - what là series way of make traîner them things yeas that he not rest more series Gotcha family of farmers ? 
is - what là the Mifflin secret of the government ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , yeas Act gouverne of the Honourable Senator , I cannot ai not said that the ACRA fonctionnait merveilleusement well and not Partnerships not need to improvements . 
what that I ai said , what is that what guardian a program important de1,5 1.1 of $ . 
something 36,949 40,000 farmers there acclaimed souscrit fell soumettant series request . 
bye the least , they there acclaimed cru at a moment rose . 
i think that everyone the world recognizes that the money dispensé by the biais of what program not has not been distribué also efficacement that he aurait avoided the perhaps . 
the Prime Minister and the minister of the Agriculture prennent Act question at the sérieux . 
transport audiences that they acclaimed eus with them premiers ministers provinciaux acclaimed confirmed what that they savaient already . 
i hope that the foreign improvements pourront perhaps Location at them programs existants and that til rereads find the other forms of assistance . 
the senator Andreychuk : 
honourable senators , I ai received from them calls of farmers who acclaimed fact series request streets the framework of ACRA . 
they me acclaimed said that confirms pouvait prendre until at six months yeas wheel series response . 
how the government can - he savoir if the program works well if health response that foreign farmers attendent désespérément arrive six months fell retard ? 
some of ceux who acclaimed fact series request fell April or fell May not reçoivent that today today notification that they not are not admissibles . 
the where complements Act confidence that the government has streets the ACRA ? 
after consultation , business premiers ministers of health Saskatchewan and the Government Manitoba are flocked at Ottawa convaincus that their problem serait commitments at the sérieux , at the instead of make the objet of Studies additional . 
they apply attendaient at what that foreign exploitations who are at the bord of health bankruptcy soient sauvées . 
series once that foreign farmers uncovered parties , they not reviendront not . 
what not is not series ressource renouvelable . 
when they quittent Act ferme familiale , they quittent Act Saskatchewan . Cela détruit Act basic . 
we cannot jouissons not to health same diversity that certaines other provinces , there including celle of the Leader of the government . 
we dépendons of the Agriculture , the Government less yeas the moment . 
when examinera til the program ACRA of the standpoint of standpoint of health Saskatchewan and the Government Manitoba , rather than the one standpoint of standpoint Whalers ? 
he not there has more of time at losing . 
the other studies not are more nécessaires . 
til can certes établir here a parallèle with Act fishing , what that the minister should understand . 
til not can most wait . 
the problem is critique . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , Mrs. the senator arranged heureuse if I puis the ensure that a tel review has instead fell what moment . 
the senator Andreychuk : 
we cannot awakened not need to review . 
the senator Boudreau : 
according Mrs. the senator , and she never is probably not Act Gotcha at wheel unabated opinion , the program not has not fonctionné also well that he the could . 
the senator has spoke of delays streets the treatment of them demandes . 
the government has commitments unabated question at the sérieux . 
espérons that foreign results of what sérieux review uncovered rendus publics very soon . 
health crisis Farm at the Manitoba and fell Saskatchewan - Possibility visit to series delegation at Ottawa - Comments anomalies streets them statistics 
the Honourable David Tkachuk : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
we parlons of course of them things whose we cannot impotent not much at the courant . 
however , series something that we savons , what is that foreign farmers to the west of the Canada comptent Incidence them farmers them more productifs , business more efficaces and Oceans more innovateurs at the world . 
they cultivent of them products of health later upper quality . 
pourtant , without that they there soient yeas something something , they Cutbacks bankruptcy . 
confirms , we the savons . 
they are acculés at Act bankruptcy and some apply suicident . 
transport senators Sparrow , Gustafson , Spivak and Andreychuk parlent of what problem since the fall 1998 . We fell awakened spoke also fell February , everything commentator we the awakened fact fell March , fell April and fell June . 
transport premiers ministers of these two provinces are ensuite flocked tribute visit at the government . 
breaching months impotent - we ? 
they acclaimed received from them figures of the Prime Minister and the Government Minister of the Agriculture . 
when they acclaimed asked to where venaient these figures , til their has said that they not pouvaient not the say . 
i am a gars simple of them Prairies . 
bye mon notice , the minister doit we say when these figures uncovered rendus publics and how unabated situation has avoided apply produire . 
the where venaient these figures ? 
the foreign excuses devraient perhaps présentées at them two premiers ministers who acclaimed been treaties of health sorte . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , he rereads has manifestement series divergence of vues fell what who pertains them figures auxquels apply are fiés them two premiers ministers provinciaux and the Prime Minister . 
i cannot believe not that what problem ait been résolu until at now . 
all levels efforts voulus uncovered consentis fell standpoint of rapprocher these figures and the tribute Public Act way that a agreed has been conclu . 
what is a very vast problem , commentator the knows the Honourable Senator . 
the senator Tkachuk : 
honourable senators , business premiers ministers acclaimed déclaré that all their figures correspondent at them data of Statistics Canada and the Government Department federal - Government Agriculture analyzed that at them data that the government federal has communiquées at the grandfather public . 
when the snakes has asked at the government federal - explain them figures at them premiers ministers , they not acclaimed not been fell measure of the make . 
he not suffit not to say that he rereads has strokes series divergence of vues . 
Ça not has not been the case . 
transport premiers ministers provinciaux acclaimed exposé a problem . 
they acclaimed utilisé them statistics and Oceans figures that their has fournis the government ' s Canada . 
the government ' s Canada has ensuite said : " We awakened of other figures , but we cannot you dirons not to where they viennent . " 
what guardian a grandfather not yeas him . 
i think that the government ' s Canada should introduce to them excuses at them two premiers ministers and apply dépêcher of us say when he déposera these figures and their source at Act House of them Commons and at the Senate . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I transmettrai the standpoint of standpoint of the senator at the minister of the Agriculture and at the Prime Minister . 
more specifically , I believe that the minister of the Agriculture fournira series explanation . 
the afternoon them discussions that I ai eues with him , I me attends at what that he the circulation directly . 
health crisis Farm at the Manitoba and fell Saskatchewan - Comments repercussions Economic of health chute of the Income Farm 
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at Act House . 
transport forecasts of the Department of the Agriculture and the Government Agroalimentaire yeas 1999 chiffraient the Income Farm net fell Saskatchewan at least 48 million for $ , authorized the level the most low that he ait atteint since 1933 , and confirms inclut them payments provenant of the EI - harvest , the Government Compte of stabilisation of the Income net and the Government Program of assistance fell case of catastrophe liée at the Income Farm . 
transport forecasts yeas the Manitoba apply chiffraient at least cent million for $ , the level the most low never atteint at the surveillance of the century , yet more low that streets them years 30 . 
health déception of them farmers and the foreign two premiers ministers provinciaux is enormous . 
i am a farmer and I vis Incidence eux . 
we cannot pouvons not we fell sortir . 
he tangibly make something something . 
health situation fingertips of graves repercussions nationales yeas the whole of the Canada . 
we formons series industry very productive . 
he not there has not to producers more efficaces at the world that foreign producers of grain of the west of the Canada . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate , business members of the cabinet and the Prime Minister not apply rendent - they not account that confirms fingertips of graves repercussions nationales , non only fell termes of tentations of separation or the union at them States - U.S. , but fell termes Economic yeas the Canada ? 
transport denrées agricultural produites by our farmers contribuent yeas series good share at our balance commerciale . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I puis ensure the Honourable Senator that the Prime Minister comprend the importance of the sector Farm yeas the whole of the economy canadienne . 
bye peine two weeks before mon entrée fell function streets unabated enceinte respectée , I ai strokes the opportunity to aller with Act Bank of the Canada fell Saskatchewan yeas there rencontrer of them farmers and hear their doléances . 
i there ai also fact series visit streets series exploitation Farm and I admire sincèrement them activities , the effectiveness and health productivity of them farmers to them Prairies . 
bye the surveillance of unabated visit , I me am rendu account however the Government ampleur of the problem . 
what problem nécessite more than series assistance self at court term . 
he tangibly that foreign farmers soient Act a foot of equality with their competitors everywhere streets the world and we devons we efforcer yeas that they aient of them chances égales . 
they acclaimed prouvé streets the past , and they the feront streets the future , that apply they acclaimed of them chances égales , they arresting fort well réussir . 
i observance very clearly at the Honourable Senator that the Prime Minister , the minister of the Agriculture and moi - even impotent conscients of the importance of the sector Farm of the West yeas the country everything entier . 
health crisis Farm at the Manitoba and fell Saskatchewan - Possibility possibility of a program of credit Farm 
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson : 
honourable senators , the Leader of the government at the Senate envisagerait - he Act Presented at the cabinet of series provision visant at alléger Act debt at Act Corporation - Government credit Farm ? 
the government could the make , puisque them farmers acquitteront their factures apply they acclaimed the money . 
commentator til the knows , til invite them farmers at not not acquitter their taxes . 
nine municipalities acclaimed decided at the moyen of a vote of not not payer their taxes . 
i ai spoke at the préfet of health municipally of Wellington . 
according him , what not is not that foreign farmers refusent of acquitter their taxes , but unsuccessfully that they are incapables of the make . 
they not arresting verser of the money that they not acclaimed not . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate accepterait - he ' transmettre at the cabinet and at the Prime Minister Act suggestion that they acclaimed prise at the sérieux yeas régler of series way or the genus another the problem of health debt at Act Corporation - credit Farm ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , without violer Act confidentialité of the cabinet , I dispel affirmer that unabated question consigned currently at the program of the cabinet . 
confirms not surprend guère the Honourable Senator , who is the elsewhere fort respecté notamment at the Breast of health community Farm . 
i cannot aurai aucune difficulty at transmettre ses doléances at condolences colleagues at the Breast of the cabinet . 
bibliothèque of the Parliament Langues Languages Examen of health regulators 
transport committees mixtes permanents - Message of them Communes 
his Honour the Speaker announcement that he has received from them Communes the message suivant : 
he is ordonné - Que them committees mixtes permanents of health House soient composés of them Members whose business names figurent ci - after : 
bibliothèque of the Parliament 
members : 
Assad , Bailey , Catterall , Cloutier , Finlay , Grey ( Edmonton - North ) , Harb , Karygiannis , Lavigne , Lill , Limoges , Mayfield , Mercier , Plamondon , Price , Redman - ( 16 ) 
members associés : 
Davies , Dumas , Tremblay ( Rimouski - Mitis ) 
languages Languages 
members : 
Bélanger , Bellemare , Chamberlain , the Savoye , Folco , Godin ( Acadie - Bathurst ) , Hill ( Macleod ) , Kilger , Lavigne , Mark , McTeague , McWhinney , Meredith , Muise , Plamondon , Serré - ( 16 ) 
members associés : 
Dumas , Mercier , Nystrom , Tremblay ( Rimouski - Mitis ) , Turp 
review of health regulators 
members : 
Assad , Bonwick , Bryden , Casey , Comuzzi , DeVillers , Epp , Grewal , Lebel , Murray , Nystrom , Pankiw , Pillitteri , Saada , Venne , Wappel , White ( North Vancouver ) - ( 17 ) 
members associés : 
Bellehumeur , Dockrill , Guimond , Tremblay ( Rimouski - Mitis ) 
that a message authorized Message at the Senate afin of inform them honourable senators ' Affairs names of them Members who représenteront Act House at them committees mixtes permanents . 
ATTESTÉ : 
transport travaux of the Senate 
health statement of the Speaker Act the octroi of series leave at the surveillance of them Affairs courantes and based on événement of the 14 October 1999 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , êtes - you to agree yeas that I circulation now Act statement that the senator Lynch - Staunton me has asked to make at the topic of them Affairs courantes lors of health dernière postponement ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
the 14 October , during Senators Affairs courantes , the senator Hays has asked Act leave of introduce , at the phase of them notice of motions of the government , series motion fell standpoint of prolonger the adjournment of the Senate . 
health leave him has been granted , but blocks that royal question has been implementation fell discussion , he rereads has strokes series certaine confusion understandings at Act procedure at suivre . 
bye Act end , health motion prolongeant the adjournment of two weeks ago been adoptée and the Senate is past at another something . 
néanmoins , when the Order of the day has been appelé , the senator Lynch - Staunton has asked at the Speaker of clarify Act question afin of avoid blunt confusion at the future . 
i thank much the senator Lynch - Staunton of wheel soulevé Act question , I believe that what is important . 
thereafter at unabated request , I ai well réfléchi at Act question and I am now loan at me prononcer Act mon interpretation of the application of them rules and usages of the Senate . 
streets ma statement , I me am efforcé of examiner the most of cases possible , but I cannot am not course of wheel couvert toutes them éventualités . 
fell outre , bearer review fingertips licences of relever certaines flaws and incohérences streets the rules , based lesquelles the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure should apply pencher . 
health formula actuelle of them Affairs courantes fact part of health procedure of the Senate since 1991 . 
unabated year - là , the rules of the Senate has been amended yeas fixer the Order streets lequel them questions of them Affairs courantes petitioners appelées at Act subsequently of them statements of senators . 
bearer Order is établi at the paragraph 23 ( 6 ) . 
the article dispose by elsewhere that foreign questions of privilege and Oceans rappels at the rules are irrecevables at the phase of them Affairs courantes and that everyone vote by Appeal nominal asked is reporté at 5:30 1:30 30 , except fell case of Motion without debate introductory without préavis . 
the other provisions of the article prévoient the hour at laquelle apply tiendra Act period of them questions and the hour at laquelle the Order of the day arranged appelé if the time prévu yeas them Affairs courantes is prolongé . 
health period of them Affairs courantes comprend Act Presented of Reports from committees permanents or spéciaux , business notice of motions of the government , analyzed that foreign notice of motions présentés by the other honourable . 
usually , business chairmen Cutbacks simply introduce their report and Oceans senators donnent notice of health motion . 
but at the opportunity , health leave is demandée of procéder Act - Government - champ , or more later at the surveillance of health journée , at Act discussion of the report of a committee . 
the same , at the phase of them notice of motions , the chairman of a committee demandera Act leave of introduce series motion yeas permettre at his committee of apply Camera at a moment where the Senate could perhaps fell postponement . 
these dernières years , all levels mardis where the Senate seat , the Leader Deputy of the government request almost invariablement Act leave of introduce series motion yeas that the Senate apply réunisse at 1:30 1:30 30 the Wednesday rather than at 14 hours . 
each once that he is asked to déroger at Act procedure of them Affairs courantes , he remembered notional of a notice fell application of them sections 57 or 58 . 
health leave is granted if nil Senator présent streets Act Room not apply there oppose . 
if a odyssey apply there oppose , health issue not can perhaps discutée before Act end of the giveaway applicable . 
fell outre , if health leave is granted , the adoption of the report or the Day motion is Proposed Act - Government - champ , except if health request move the fell Extend the examination at more later at the surveillance of health journée . 
when Act question relative at the report or at Act motion is implementation at them Senators , she is sujette at debate . 
the fact that these issues nécessitent a préavis indique clearly that thin are sujettes at debate . 
nil report of Committee or motion of fond who is overburdened at them Senators not is soustrait at Act possibility of a debate . 
the fact that foreign motions présentées with Act leave of the Senate at the phase of them Affairs courantes not are rarely or ever débattues not signifie not that thin not puissent not the perhaps . 
seules them motions présentées without préavis not arresting perhaps débattues . 
series once the debate fell surveillance , toutes them rules régissant them debates are applicables , there including health possibility of a rappel at the rules . 
confirms tient at the fact that fell acceptant that royal question authorized implementation at them Senators , the Séant apply is the what fact écarté of them Affairs courantes yeas Act durée of the debate , until at what that he authorized tranché or adjourned . 
bye mon sense , health restriction of the paragraph 23 ( 1 ) , excluant them rappels at the rules or telecommunications questions of privilege at the phase of them Affairs courantes , not apply applies not at the debate , étant rose that the Senate not is richly more at the phase of them Affairs courantes . 
if , by elsewhere , series request for vote by Appeal nominal is introductory at Act end of the debate , the paragraph 23 ( 3 ) dispose that he arranged reporté at 5:30 1:30 30 what day - là , except , well heard , if health leave is granted to the heed at a another moment . 
series another provision of the article 23 apply applies same if a debate is fell surveillance . 
the paragraph 23 ( 7 ) introduces that at the most later 30 minutes after the Appeal of the Prime standpoint of them Affairs courantes , the Senate doit mood at Act period of them questions . 
he is therefore possible that the examination of them Affairs courantes or a debate fell surveillance Act a standpoint of them Affairs courantes authorized interrompu by Act period of them questions . 
the fact , what is what who faces is produced the 6 May 1993 when the debate fell third reading of the bill to Bill C - 114 , amend Act Act électorale of the Canada , has been asked immediately after Act Presented of the report Act the bill to Bill , without amendment , by the committee of them Affairs legal and Constitutional . 
bye unabated opportunity , the bill to Bill Partnerships franchi the phase of health third reading before Act end of the giveaway of trente minutes yeas them Affairs courantes précédant Act period of them questions . 
the Senate is ensuite past at the examination of the Order of the day without revert at them Affairs courantes . 
voilà therefore fell gros what who may apply mood when the Senate accepte of accueillir series motion at the phase of them Affairs courantes . 
i hope that these Particulars you permettront of better understanding bearer aspect of our procedures . 
what who faces is past the Thursday 14 October last , when the senator Hays has asked Act leave of introduce series motion visant at prolonger the adjournment of the Senate , guardian therefore conforme at our rules and usages . 
orders OF THE 
the speech of the Trône 
motion of Adopted of the Adresse fell response - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Kroft , supported by the Honourable Senator Furey , Refer at the adoption of series Adresse at His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale fell response at the speech that Elle has prononcé lors of the opening of health second session of health trente - sixth législature . 
( 1er day to health resuming the Government debate ) 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , before toutes things , I tiens today today at thank mon prédécesseur , ami and compatriote of health Nova Scotia Nova , the senator Graham , the Government excellent leadership that he has assuré at the Senate at the surveillance of them two dernières years . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the senator Boudreau : 
i him am recognizing the Government assistance and the Government soutien généreux that he me has accorded these dernières weeks , since ma appointment , during lesquelles I ai strokes énormément of things at learn . 
i dissenting abuser without vergogne of the assistance that he has if generously proposed the continue at me give . 
honourable senators , I saisis also the opportunity to thank the senator Carstairs of the excellent work that she has accompli during these two years at the station of Leader Deputy . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the senator Boudreau : 
i hope also profiter of ses vastes connaissances and the dapper rich experience , at the moment where we entamons series nouvelle session of health législature . 
the senator Hays has been well franc fell me disant that he serait fort difficult to satisfaire at them standards exigeantes imposées by the senator Carstairs . 
all sides , we ferons widely Appeal at ses lumières streets them days at venir . 
i tiens at congratulate them senators Kroft and Furey of them excellents speech that they acclaimed prononcés yeas propose and appuyer the Adresse fell response at the speech of the Trône . 
i me fell voudrais of not not add condolences congratulations at them nombreuses other than has reçues our nouvelle Gouverneure générale . 
dapper appointment prouve that the rêve Heritage not is not only a rêve ; he remembered is réalisé . 
til can apply élever until at them more hauts positions at the country and contributing to fashion very significative at our vision collective of the Canada . 
damned is unabated vision ? 
the Prime Minister ' has décrite analyzed streets dapper response at the speech of the Trône : 
what is a Canada where each child is assuré of a bon departure streets Act life , where them young acclaimed Act possibility of apply épanouir and the réaliser their potentiel streets the field of their choice , where them citizens acclaimed access at them connaissances and at them skills whose they acclaimed need yeas exceller . 
what is a Canada where them citizens , breaching that authorized their income , reçoivent of them care of health of quality , where them families vivent fell security streets a milieu sain , where we travaillons of concert with the other countries at promote Act peace , health diversity culturelle and Oceans bienfaits of health nouvelle economy mondialisée ... 
what is a Canada who is a leader and a model whose the world entier puisse apply inspirer . 
transport sceptiques diront can - perhaps that what are là of belles paroles and they apply interrogeront can - perhaps Act their signification exodus . 
fortunately , these paroles acclaimed series very importante signification . 
the government réalise unabated vision thanks at Act strategy which is énoncée streets the speech of the Trône and at them termes of laquelle he remembered commits at travailler fell collaboration with them provinces and Oceans territories yeas allegiances at the standpoint the Program attain of Action yeas them children . 
he réalise unabated vision fell établissant a plan to Action attain fell matière of skills and the learning yeas the XXIe century . 
he Act réalise by the biais of initiatives visant at accroître the access to them businesses Forces at them markets mondiaux . 
he Act réalise thanks at the foreign programs who visent at improve the infrastructure of the savoir of the Canada , notamment by Act creation of them instituts Airports of research fell health , and fell soutenant davantage Act research of sunrise . 
he Act réalise fell adoptant of them measures which rendront our infrastructure of the information unsurpassed . 
he réalise unabated vision fell prenant of them initiatives yeas improve our environment . 
honourable senators , unabated vision of the Canada is enthousiasmante and she can devenir reality . 
our country has franchi a tournant . 
we awakened overburdened of the Order streets our finances , our budget is balanced and he the restera . 
commentator Act Gouverneure générale we the has said streets the speech of the Trône : 
the government is résolu at pursue series policy of management financière prudente . 
more never he not permettra that the snakes perde the control of them finances of the state . 
he fera fell sorte that royal debt diminue constamment by report at the product intérieur gross . 
he respectera the commitment commitments at the beginning of unabated législature of consacrer Act half of the surplus budgétaire at the remboursement of health debt and at the allégement of them taxes , and the another half at them investment destinés at respond at them needs Cultural and Economic of them Canadians . 
honourable senators , he rereads has however the other réalités streets our country which exigent our attention . 
i viens of series region which , during the nombreuses years , has souffert of his éloignement of the seat of the power economic and political of the country . 
the Cape - Cape , at title of example , doit transformer completely his economy . 
account tenu of what that recelait his subamendment - soil , the Cape - Cape has seen his economy reposer during the foreign generations Act the extraction of minerais who never are more exploitables of way rentable at grande échelle , the Government less not commentator they the acclaimed been streets the past , and based on industry to the acier who seems now wheel lost dapper reason for perhaps economic . 
fell reason for bearer accident géographique , the Cape - Cape not apply is never doté of series masse critique of industries of fabrication anguishes of industries of services sophistiquées yeas échapper at Act dépendance of these industries traditionnelles fondées Act them resources minérales . 
health plupart of them regions acclaimed strokes several decades yeas apply adapt at them nouvelles réalités Economic , but the time is a luxe that no has not the Cape - Cape . 
he doit apply transformer radicalement . 
he doit make a grandfather bond fell before streets his development economic . 
he doit apply propulser , almost the Government day at the lendemain , streets the Insignia age post - industriel . 
i believe that the speech of the Trône contains a message of espoir yeas the Cape - Cape and yeas them other regions semblables of our grandfather country . 
streets his speech , the senator Furey has spoke of them rajustements who are fell train of apply opérer streets dapper province , Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the Labrador . 
he has said : 
today today , Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the Labrador apply retrouvent streets Act tourmente of them grands changes technological and Economic who balayent the world . 
transport people of unabated region not apply laissent however not emporter ; they Cutbacks Appeal at their skills and at their acquis of attest date yeas make opposite at them réalités of the change rapide . 
thanks at their creativity , their ressort , their solidarité , their determination and their acharnement at the work , they réalisent their dreams and poussent toward the prior their province and their countries . 
transport computers and the Internet arresting égaliser them chances between Act city and health campaign , between the centre of the Canada and Oceans provinces atlantiques , between them riches and Oceans poor . 
recently , I ai heard parler of series human who 21.2 at Mount Pearl , at Newfoundland - Newfoundland , and who télétravaille yeas series congruent of animation of Los Angeles . 
the place where 21.2 what travailleur regardless little yeas his employer . 
everyone what who account , what is his talent and his branchement Internet . 
health population of ma province , health Nova Scotia Nova , the knows perfectly well . 
streets all levels coins of health province , he rereads has the foreign douzaines of companies fell technology of the information which are prêtes at apply lancer Act the autoroute of the information . 
transport Scotians - Scotians are already Act unabated autoroute and some foncent at blunt skating toward the success . 
the Prime Minister of the Canada has fixé the objective : make the Government Canada a leader Whalers streets the utilisation intelligente of the électronique yeas make the foreign Affairs and encourage the expansion rapide of the trade électronique at the Canada . 
honourable senators , business residents of health Nova Scotia Nova are them premiers at the Canada yeas what who is the Government achat and the Day sale of products by Internet . 
we awakened quickly including individuals opportunities for the Internet and we fell profitons . 
i vais you give a example . 
fell 1995 , when the market immobilier battait of the aile , health direction of two tours at bureaux jumelles streets the centre - city of Halifax has connu of sérieux problems . 
these buildings , who représentaient the sixth of them premises at bureaux of the centre - city of Halifax , étaient gravement Subcommittee - utilisés . 
health direction has Robbie decided to prendre of grands risks . 
she has installé them câbles nécessaires at a access rapide and the sunrise at Internet . 
analyzed , fell November 1998 , business buildings of Purdy' Maclean Wharf acclaimed marqué the history fell devenant the Prime complex at the Canada provider of services Internet . 
what is series vision , series initiative and a investment who acclaimed rapporté . 
fell effect , Purdy' Maclean Wharf who comptait eight businesses of technology of the information occupant 35 40,000 inches square fell 1995 accueille now 40 businesses semblables , who occupent series superficie of 120 40,000 inches square . 
Incidence ses locataires , til trouve AT & T Canada , Clear Picture Corporation , Fonorola , Fundy Communications , IBM Canada , iStar Internet , Knowledge Navigators International , Nova Knowledge , Sprint Canada and Xerox Canada , yeas not fell appoint that few - uns . 
relié by a network of fibres optiques , a catalyst circuit of data is overburdened at Act provision of all levels locataires , their assurant 24 hours by day a access at Internet at somewhat près100 once more rapide that foreign modems conventionnels . 
til has also installé the intranet yeas permettre the réseautage between them locataires . 
otherwise said , the propriétaire has transformé a market immobilier moribond fell opportunity to Affairs , opportunity who has created a centre of technology at the heart of health city of Halifax . 
transport initiatives of what kind , activist translated that privées , donnent of bons results . 
bye Halifax , the rate of unemployment yeas the month of September guardian of 6,2p. cent , authorized the rate the most bas since Act Seconde Guerre World . 
what rate is the same that gerrymandering of Toronto and he is inférieur at Act average national of 7,5p. cent yeas September . 
honourable senators , we awakened the talent necessary , and the government apply efforce of make fell sorte that all levels Canadians , somewhat regardless where they vivent at the country , disposent of them outils whose they acclaimed need yeas réaliser their potentiel . 
the Prime Minister has been very clear streets his speech fell response at the speech of the Trône when he has said : 
brancher them Canadians - between eux , with them schools and Oceans bibliothèques , with Act culture , with the administration Public , with the trade and with the world - is the one of them summarizing afford to hisser the Canada at the range of grande economy World and the continue at fell make a country at them opportunities without limits . 
we devons viser at devenir the country ' more branché at the world . 
yet series once , the government has fixé of them buts very concrets yeas achieve bearer objective : 
and yeas them help at maîtriser the usage of them nouvelles technologies of the information , we recruterons until at 10 40,000 young Canadians who donneront of health training at them citizens of all levels âges . 
honourable senators , business skills and health training are essentielles if the snakes wants power profiter of these nouvelles opportunities . 
the government has announced that he formera of them partnerships with them other governments , business agencies publics and Woodlot analyzed that with them Canadians and Oceans Canadiennes , afin of établir a plan to Action attain fell matière of skills and the learning yeas the XXIe century . 
permettez - moi of you citer a another extrait of the speech of the trône : 
our economy at basic of savoir represents more than the foreign companies of upper technology . 
what is series economy who comprend already of them grappes of developing technologique streets of small communities everywhere at the Canada . 
fell reality , what is series economy at the Breast of laquelle Act technology can aboutir at series more grande stability economic streets them regions primarily rural streets lesquelles them industries of exploitation of them resources cycliques - agriculture , fisheries , forestry , mines and tourism - constitute them principales sources of richesse . 
the government favorisera the development and the adoption of nouvelles technologies streets all levels sectors . 
revenons - fell at ma own province . 
how Act Nova Scotia Nova fell profitera she ? 
i you dis of nouveau that she fell tirera of them benefits very concrets , honourable senators . 
the sector of the energy is fort prometteur yeas the Canada Atlantic . 
i ai personally very bon espoir that he offrira at Act region of nouveaux sectors stimulants of research and the development at which , at their tour , palatable apply traduire by the foreign opportunities and the foreign applications fascinantes at the outside of the Canada Atlantic . 
the nouveau Centre of excellence fell matière of developing and the education streets the sector of the pétrole , établi at the Collège universitaire of the Cape - Cape , could serve the tremplin at these activities of research and the development . 
i ai recently strokes the opportunity to announce the établissement of the Institute of the pétrole of the Canada Atlantic at the University Dalhousie at Halifax . 
these établissements travaillent already together and concoctent solemn of them alliances with the grands établissements of the industry to the pétrole elsewhere streets the world . 
the our days , business exploitations agricultural ressemblent often at the foreign usines complex caractérisées by series growth manipulée and the foreign récoltes non saisonnières at grande échelle . 
transport industries traditionnelles of exploitation of them resources , commentator celles of them Forestry and the foreign mines , subissent the influence of health research fell biotechnologie . 
he and fréquent of Welfare assis derrière a office permettant of observer the rivage streets the comté of Lunenburg , puis of cliquer Act the bouton of series souris and the échanger of them information and the foreign ideas with the foreign people situés of the another side of health planet . 
honourable senators , he not suffit not to montrer at our young at apply serve the one ordinateur or at programmer a logiciel . 
we devons ouvrir their yeux and their esprits at the potentiel of the world who we entoure . 
the government recognizes what fact . 
streets the speech of the Trône , the government announcement that he permettra at them young Canadians to utiliser their energy and their talents outre - sea fell participant at the foreign programs internationaux of stages and fell aidant them country fell voie of developing at apply brancher Act Internet . 
these experiences arresting perhaps the genus grande value , commentator Act training concrète and directe that thin offrent ; them connaissances acquises streets of other countries and auprès of other peoples ; Act prise of conscience that the world is grandfather but that royal distance not doit not we prevent the travailler together . 
what are là of them lessons importantes who rendront our young , business leaders of tomorrow , aptes at make pénétrer our communities and our country streets the XXIe century . 
what are là of them initiatives which arresting help activist them small communities that foreign grands centres urbains . 
i ai much confidence streets them Canadians , and they acclaimed of more fell more confidence fell eux - mêmes . 
that they vivent at the milieu of our grands centre urbain or streets a petit village isolé of the Atlantic or still fell pleine forêt of health British - British , the message of the speech of the Trône is that royal distance not has never been also little importante streets our history . 
the government fera fell sorte that foreign Canadians , where that they vivent , aient access at them outils whose they acclaimed need yeas réussir streets what Insignia age post - industriel . 
confirms arranged he easy ? 
what not is never easy . 
bâtir what country not has , certes , not been easy . 
our ancêtres acclaimed fondé what country fell dépit of a climate very rigoureux , the foreign vastes distances at parcourir , and the profondes differences linguistic , culturelles and religieuses . 
quelles étaient them chances of success ? 
they not acceptaient not to perhaps vaincus by these difficulties . 
we devons at these pionniers who acclaimed imaginé what country and the acclaimed réalisé of make a rêve yeas the century who complements . 
transport nouveaux pionniers are well portants and vivent streets Act region of the Atlantic or everywhere elsewhere at the Canada . 
these nouveaux pionniers , who forment the rêve of the XXIe century , not toléreront not them prophètes of malheurs . 
honourable senators , our Gouverneure générale has prononcé a speech inspiré at unabated House when she has assumé dapper nouvelle function . 
she has said rejecting : 
we cannot devons not we see commentator a Inuvialuit who réagit at them trends , but commentator a Inuvialuit who them lance . 
we cannot devons not we see commentator a Inuvialuit who réagit , but commentator a Inuvialuit who notional . 
the government has déclaré his intention of see what country proud and prospère driver the world streets the next millennium and au - delà . 
we devrions all perhaps honorés of Welfare fell measure , fell activist that parliamentarians , the make fell sorte that confirms apply réalise . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I tiens at congratulate Act Gouverneure générale recently nommée and at him souhaiter everything the success voulu streets ses nouvelles duties of representative of the Opposition of the state Heritage . 
Ms Clarkson succède at the one of our Veterans colleagues who has apporté series touche personnelle at series charge ingrate and often little appréciée at dapper fair value . 
PuissentM. Roméo LeBlanc and dapper gracieuse wife , Diana , couler series attest retirement heureuse Act them rives of the détroit of Northumberland . 
health policy can perhaps also cruelle that grisante , and not only after the foreign election . 
transport reports between them différents acteurs , often dénaturés by foreign ambitions personnelles , we mettent often rudement at the épreuve . 
the success of a party politics , and assurément of his chief , quels that soient them déconvenues or telecommunications problems personnels , is inexorablement tributaire of health loyalty to them supporters . 
honourable senators , these observations me viennent at the spirit at Act subsequently of the withdrawal soudain of the senator Graham of ses duties of Leader of the government at the Senate . 
during his mandate , the commitment to the senator at the hook of our institution and the Day Nova Scotia Nova not has never done défaut each once that he remembered is acted yeas him to defend them objectives of the government and the Hon. party . 
ses qualities of man of honour and the principles not acclaimed never autant been mises at the épreuve that the month last , and dapper conduct copy since fell apporte series nouvelle once Act Evidence . 
that he me authorized licences of emprunter Act journalistic of Edmund Burke yeas express ma reaction at the limogeage if cavalier of the senator Graham . 
health magnanimité fell policy is often the unique voie of health wisdom and health grandeur of a party politics is desservie by foreign esprits mesquins . 
rejecting said , at the name of them members of our caucus and the moi - even , I souhaite good luck at the senator Boudreau at the station of Leader of the government . 
however , his admission that he is here primarily yeas redorer the blason of his party fell Nova Scotia Nova , what that he has done to fashion extraordinary streets the speech that he has prononcé he rereads has few instants , is troublante car she raises the foreign questions Act the passage streets unabated House non élue fell attendant series charge Public élective . 
the senator Boudreau has said without ambages that he Partnerships the intent of Welfare candidate at Act House of them Commons at them prochaines election . 
what is at mon notice commentator if a joueur of health League national of hockey désirait ardemment apply make Refer streets series ligue mineure . 
i hope that the senator Boudreau apprendra vite at apprécier the importance and Oceans accomplishments of the Senate and that he remembered rendra account that what is streets unabated House that foreign bills of Bill are the better étudiés , where the spirit of party not is never too prononcé and where them supporters of the government , business ministers and Oceans senators ' second plan are all treaties commentator of them individus and non commentator of them automates , and that they apply comportent fell consequential , libres of them contraintes imposées at our colleagues streets the another place . 
transport senators Kroft and Furey , who acclaimed proposed and supported Act motion relative at the Adresse fell response at the speech of the Trône , run are acquittés with grande distinction and eloquence of their role . 
he not faudra however not chercher streets their propos another something that series vague référence at the speech who has tellement pesé at His Excellency and who présentait a contraste frappant with gerrymandering that she has prononcé after his assermentation . 
the senator Kroft fell has done little of cases , not him consacrant that few courts paragraphes , and we took rose series indication of his commitment carking loyalty his country and the government , what that has done also the senator Furey . 
fell fact , they not specialist not the choice appeared a speech whose til attendait activist and who is immediately became a non - événement . 
what who aurait owed perhaps series vision yeas the century at venir apply is transformé fell series litanie of platitudes . 
the sentiment of anticipation reposait Act the attente généralisée of proposals concrete yeas résoudre them graves problems that we vivons currently . 
gold , at Act grande surprise of all , the speech of the Trône has past Subcommittee silence the Agriculture of the West , who traverse Act worse crisis since them years 30 , business fisheries , who are fell proie at the sérieuses difficulties , the Immigration illégale , who trahit them failles of health législation canadienne , business difficulties of them compagnies strikes that , even today today , the government préfère that something something appelé them " forces of the market " rule , and health reduction of them taxes who , if til déchiffre them few mots who there are consacrés , arranged abordée fair before Senators prochaines election . 
health poverty and the fate of them without - abri not acclaimed guère been mentionnés . 
however , he rereads has two subjects who acclaimed been abordés streets the speech of the Trône and whose I query parler . 
the Prime pertains Act statement according laquelle the government not permettra more never that the snakes perde the control of them finances of the state . 
he is rassurant of see that ceux - là same who étaient là at the époque and who acclaimed délibérément shirts them finances of health Nation aller at Act dérive acclaimed fini by understand , even if ça not has not been easy . 
i think fell particular at the Prime Minister who , fell activist that President of the Council of the Treasury and Minister of them Finance streets them years 70 , has much contributed at the accroissement of the deficit budgétaire , who has sextuplé , and the Day debt Public net , who has doubled . 
what that the government not recognizes not , but whose everything the world apply rend of more fell more account , what is that foreign bons results obtenus at them plans budgétaire and Monetary are dus at the fact that the snakes has continué of appliquer them political adoptées by foreign governments Mulroney , auxquelles them Liberals étaient opposés at the époque , at savoir Act reduction of them Estimates for programs pursuant at them needs nationaux réels , health creation of a surplus of functioning , health reduction of them rate of interest and series reduction of the rate of inflation . 
these results , who never auraient never avoided perhaps atteints Subcommittee them Veterans Liberals , and the free - Exchange - auxquels apply opposaient vivement these mêmes Members dépensiers - are now at Act basic of them political actuelles of the government , a government which tait effrontément them efforts extraordinaires accomplis by foreign governments Mulroney , who is embarrassed by Act vive Opposition that he has manifestée against these measures when thin acclaimed been introduites , notamment Act excise Act them products and services . 
fell September 1990 , the Opposition of the Party Liberal Partnerships said that : 
... Act Position of the party is claire . 
we ourselves opposons at Act GST and not voulons not to dapper implementation fell implementation . 
recently , the Prime Minister has done the éloge of unabated excise and écarté blunt tentative of the éliminer , and what same Act the equipment of reading , analyzed that fell has témoigné a vote tenu here fell September . 
the second standpoint who attire mon attention streets the speech is more disturbing car he door Act the future of our country . 
the government ' s Canada réaffirme therefore the commitment that he has commitments loyalty them Quebecers and all levels other Canadians , at savoir that the principle of clarté énoncé by Act Court Supreme of the Canada arranged respecté . 
added at some commentaires less nuancés of some door - parole of the government , rejecting laisse hear that fell case of a referendum , the government Liberal has the intent of interpréter at dapper way the opinion of health Court Supreme Act Act question of a vote favorable at Act sovereignty ! 
i dis opinion car what not is not series decision , but unsuccessfully series opinion that royal Court Supreme has rendue . 
nothing streets unabated opinion not lie who that what authorized . 
understandings at moi , health cour is allée too loin fell dépassant them three issues that she guardian appelée at trancher and , what faisant , she participe at a debate policy which no is not to his ressort . 
why ? 
autant I believe that royal Court Supreme is allée too loin streets ses énoncés , autant I am désolé that the government federal apply dise loan at participate at a referendum , non only before that he not apply tienne , but even before that he not authorized connu ! 
health priority primordiale of everyone government attain is the unity of the country , and never he not should poser a geste who irait at the encontre of celle - ci . 
fell interprétant at dapper way series series of conditions waves and confuses of health Court Supreme , the government risk fell effect of apply find partner streets series aventure who could coûter cher at all levels Canadians . 
i voudrais conclude fell parlant of series vive préoccupation partagée by much , what is - at - say the fact that the Parliament , and mostly Act House of them Commons , is the most fell more déphasé . 
i cannot ai never hid mon admiration yeas Act form of government ' Affairs States - U.S. , because their regime richly Act a system of contrepoids who limite them excesses auquel the one of them powers can apply livrer odyssey . 
the most often , the chairman and the Congress are constamment at Act research of compromise , car all levels two are them summarizing artisans of the élaboration and the Government Adopted définitive of them laws . 
transport mistakes of the executive and Oceans camouflages not passent not inaperçus well long , car , at the moindre soupçon , the Congress fact inquiry . 
he arrive often , he is true , that the power législatif exploite exagérément the advantage that he possède yeas retarder indéfiniment series appointment présidentielle or someone else initiative of the executive , but confirms not enlève nothing at the fact that foreign two powers are more or less Act a foot of equality and arresting rarely réussir the one without the another . 
health House not siégeait that since few days when the government has imposed Act clôture yeas allegiances end at the debate Act the bill to Bill C - 6 . 
he has menacé of fell make autant yeas the bill to Bill Act the agreement définitif nisga' has . 
why ? 
simply because these projects the bill , we said - til , laughed been débattus elsewhere , and that series study more poussée at them Communes not ajouterait nothing to nine . 
perhaps - til express more clearly his contemptuous yeas Act democracy Parliamentary ? 
unfortunately , the Senate has been treaty at somewhat close to health same manner when he has been reminded yeas débattre the bill to Bill C - 32 , based on environment , and the bill to Bill C - 78 , based them Pension . 
sitôt fell station , the nouveau Minister of the Environnement has announced that the bill to Bill C - 32 Partnerships been enough longuement débattu and that nil amendment not serait accepted . 
bye the committee , health majority has imposed Act clôture , puis a report unanimous has been 3.25 at the Senate disant that the bill to Bill guardian entaché of tellement of imperfections that series révision should débuter immediately after his Adopted . 
health clôture has been imposée at Act third reading , business senators ministériels soutenant that , even if the bill to Bill Partnerships of nombreux défauts , he restait supérieur at Act bill existante . 
fell adoptant the bill to Bill C - 32 , health majority at the Senate has fell fact consciemment supported a bill to Bill everything fell sachant that he aurait owed make the objet of a review more approfondi , according the role traditionnel of the Senate . 
what not is not là the genus of ses meilleures accomplishments . 
the bill to Bill Act them Pension has been repoussé of the month of June at the month of September yeas give at the Council of the Treasury and at the Alliance of health Fonction Public Act chance to apply rencontrer at the surveillance of the summer yeas tenter of corriger some malentendus , everything particularly fell what who touchait them impotent excédentaires . 
the Council of the Treasury has refused to rencontrer the syndicat yeas discuss the Day question , alléguant that these impotent appartenaient at the government . 
health nouvelle patron of the Council of the Treasury apply is montrée also inflexible . 
til not has therefore tenu nil account the Government judgment unanimous of the Senate . 
bye the surveillance of the debate on third reading , til we took fact savoir that if the syndicat voulait make avancer ses claims relatively at the sharing the Government surplus , he should intenter series poursuite fell justice . 
là still , the Senate has abandonné ses responsibilities traditionnelles at the chapter of the examination attentif afin of adhere series instruction venue of the outside voulant that the bill to Bill authorized adopted despite ses faiblesses . 
i ai underlined more earlier than the nouveau Leader of the government at the Senate Partnerships been impressionné of health somme of work that we accomplissons here by report at what who faces fact at the another place . 
i am the notice that what who faces is produced fell September is owed davantage at the impatience who précède series prorogation that at a effort volontaire fell standpoint of reduce them contributions to the Senate at the process Parliamentary and I am persuadé that at the surveillance of unabated nouvelle session , we reprendrons our responsibilities traditionnelles , everything fell étant always well at the fact of them désirs of health House élue . 
i believe well also that foreign rumeurs persistantes voulant that til withdrew at the Opposition toutes them présidences of Committee that she occupies except series not are not fondées . 
no regardless breaching observer independent not rereads that reconnaître that foreign présidences of Committee occupées by the foreign colleagues on mon party at the surveillance of health first session of health présente législature acclaimed been exercées with distinction and at the honour to the Senate . 
blunt tentative of reduce without justification Act contribution to non - supporters of the government at the system of them committees apply heurtera at series vigoureuse résistance , non not by égoïsme mesquin but because that royal grande value of our institution richly Act a touchstone of cooperation and non - hostilité mutuelle . 
bye the époque where we étions majoritaires of the side of the Opposition , we awakened résisté several once - well that with difficulty , I the avoue - at the envy of make the Government obstruction yeas the plaisir of make the Government obstruction , what who has been the case durant series good part of them years 80 and fell 1990 when business rôles étaient renversés . 
we awakened worked délibérément at the dismissal of two bills of Bill , regarding the airport Pearson and regarding the réaménagement of health carte électorale , car they étaient clearly anticonstitutionnels . 
we gardons always at the spirit that royal volonté of them representatives élus doit perhaps respectée , pourvu that she apply exprime streets them limits of health Constitution . 
honourable senators , the success of the Senate apply measure non not by the exploitation of series majority yeas make adopt the foreign bills of Bill at Act steamship , but rather by Act contribution to all levels senators at the improvement of them measures legislatures who we parviennent of the another place . 
no accorder at the Opposition that a role insignifiant streets what process , what serait transformer the Senate fell series image fidèle of health House of them Commons and give still more of munitions at ceux who cherchent at make Abolish our institution . 
series telle attitude could fingertips destroy the spirit Present of cooperation and the harmonie who , he is ironique of the constater , not is not abroad at the respect to the Opposition yeas the Senate , a respect that royal majority , I the hope , continuera of partager . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . ) 
bill to Bill facilitant Act prise of certaines decisions médicales 
second reading - Adjourned of the debate 
perhaps honourable senators , the bill to Bill S - 2 has yeas objet of facilitate Act prise of decisions médicales by the foreign patients fell protégeant against blunt responsibility pénale them soignants who respectent them souhaits of their patients . 
more specifically , the bill to Bill clarifie them laws fell protégeant them soignants who faces abstiennent of administrer a treatment of survival at Act request for the patient or fell interrompent the administration , or who administrent of them médicaments afin of soulager of fortes douleurs physiques . 
what Bill of Bill introduces also that the minister of health Health can établir of them lines directrices nationales and promote Act sensibilisation and health training relatively at the abstention of administrer of them traitements of survival , the traiter Act douleur and the administrer of them care palliative or at their discontinuance . 
the bill to Bill S - 2 , whose the subheading abrégé is Act facilitant Act prise of certaines decisions médicales , is the third bill to Bill of what kind at perhaps presented streets unabated House these dernières years . 
honourable senators , the 27 November 1996 , I ai presented the bill to Bill S - 13 , visant at modify the Code criminal ( protection of them soignants ) . 
what Bill of Bill is nary fell plan lors of the déclenchement of them election fédérales fell May 1997 . 
bye the surveillance of health dernière session of health présente législature , the senator Thérèse Lavoie - Roux has presented the bill to Bill S - 29 , who Partnerships the same goal General that the bill to Bill S - 13 , health protection of them patients and the foreign soignants . 
the bill to Bill S - 29 is death at the Paper lors of health prorogation of the Parliament fell September . 
bye mon notice , the bill to Bill S - 2 , Act facilitant Act prise of certaines decisions médicales , intègre the meilleur of them bills of Bill S - 13 and S - 29 . 
however , I veux that he authorized well clear yeas all levels senators that I cannot considère not what Bill of Bill commentator the mien . 
i the considère commentator the bill to Bill of the Comité Special of the Senate Act the euthanasia and the assistance at the suicide . 
he is the fruit of the work of the former senator Joan Flynn , the foreign senators Lavoie - Roux , Corbin , Beaudoin , DeWare , Keon and moi - even , puisque I ai sat at the committee , moi also . 
if I devais dédier what Bill of Bill at something a , what serait at the regretté Senator Christmas Desmarais , who , even apply he not guardian not member at share entière of the committee , has remplacé Mrs. the senator DeWare several months , during that she soignait his husband patient , and who has continué of dialoguer with us until at what that he authorized him ? same at them prises with series illness terminale . 
transport honourable senators constateront that the bill to Bill S - 2 commence by a preamble . 
the 23 February 1994 , the committee sénatorial Special Act the euthanasia and the assistance at the suicide has been formé yeas examiner them aspects legal , Housing and ethics of the euthanasia and the Government assistance at the suicide . 
they acclaimed trait at them care palliative and at the refusal of recevoir a treatment destiné at maintain them duties vitales or at the v. of what type of treatment . 
they acclaimed trait at Act maîtrise of health douleur . 
the 6 June 1995 , the committee has submitted at the Senate his report entitled : " De Act life and the Day death " . 
according moi , the preamble of what Bill of Bill is essentiel yeas give at the Senate Committee deserves who him revient of plein right . 
some editors of laws cannot aiment not them préambules . 
however , streets the case présent , he not is not only positif , but he rend justice at the committee , who has worked very durum . 
i query now parler of points spécifiques of the bill to Bill S - 2 . 
the article 2 of the bill to Bill introduces that nil provider of care of health not can perhaps recognized coupable of series offence fell vertu of the Code criminal yeas wheel administré at series human of them médicaments with the intent of soulager or the make disparaître dapper souffrance physical , at the foreign doses pouvant abréger dapper life . 
streets his report entitled : " De Act life and the Day death " , the committee sénatorial Special recognizes that royal practice which BNA at traiter the patient of manner at soulager ses souffrances , even if she can abréger Act life of the patient , is currently légale . 
the Code criminal not interdit not them care palliative , even if confirms can abréger Act life of the patient , fell autant that foreign care are dispensés of way conforme at them practices médicales generally reconnues . 
however , a certain number of witnesses acclaimed déclaré at the committee that foreign doctors hésitaient often at administrer suffisamment of médicaments antidouleur if confirms risquait of abréger Act life of them patients , the crainte of Welfare referendums criminellement responsables of the Late of their patients . 
the very nombreux witnesses him rose décrit Act confusion who règne activist chez them professionals of health health that at the Breast of health population fell General understandings at Act légalité of health practice , the committee sénatorial Special has recommended at the unanimously that foreign provisions pertinentes of the Code criminal soient clarifiées . 
nombreux are them doctors apply spécialisant streets them care palliative who soutiennent that the treatment of health douleur not abrège never Act life of the patient . 
according some testimony recueillis , when Act concentration of them médicaments is well réglée , business patients apply adaptent simply at Act dose accrue of them médicaments administrés . 
however , we cannot fell awakened aucune Evidence and , at mon notice , là not is not Act vraie question . 
all autant that we analyzed , we devrions veiller at what that foreign patients at the Canada souffrent the least possible . 
the committee sénatorial not is not the odyssey at réclamer that til clarifie them provisions of the Code criminal who portent Act Act possibility of administrer a treatment who , everything fell atténuant Act douleur , risk of abréger Act life of the patient . 
health Commission of reform of the right Partnerships formulé Act same recommendation streets a report that she has diffusé fell 1983 . 
the most , the Association medical canadienne réclame Act clarification of health law streets what field since 1992 . 
the committee sénatorial Special utilisait the expression more générale of " treatment destiné at soulager Act souffrance " , but the article 2 of the bill to Bill is formulé of way at exclure them situations where the foreign médicaments are administrés yeas soulager of them souffrances émotionnelles or psychologiques . 
bye mon notice , he tangibly user of prudence and nothing streets what Bill of Bill not should susciter Act controversy , and pourtant we savons all that the treatment of health souffrance émotionnelle or psychologique prête at Act controversy . 
the article 2 not protège not them soignants streets them case where he could there wheel a another kind of responsibility pénale , commentator Act neglect criminelle . 
honourable senators , comprenez - moi well : the article 2 not apply applies absolument not at them case where he rereads has intention of causer Act death . 
he not apply applies that streets them case where the snakes wants soulager them souffrances physiques of the patient . 
he is very important to the souligner . 
nul not should échapper at dapper responsibility criminelle if his intention is the tuer something a . 
the paragraph 3 ) 1 ) the Government Bill of Bill S - 2 introduces that the soignant not is not coupable of series offence prévue by the Code criminal of the odyssey fact that at Act request for series human capable , he remembered abstient of him administrer a treatment of survival or fell interrompt the administration . 
the paragraph 3 ) 2 ) clarifie them circumstances streets lesquelles series request is considérée valable at them purposes of the paragraph 3 ) 1 ) . 
the foreign instructions écrites préalables , conformes at them laws of series province , auront always préséance . 
health plupart of them provinces acclaimed already passed on them provisions legislatures Act them instructions préalables . 
the Alberta is Act dernière province at wheel adopted series bill referred what topic ; fell effect , health Personal Directives Act has been proclamée and is entrée fell vigueur the 1er December 1997 . 
the Manitoba , Newfoundland - Newfoundland , health Nova Scotia Nova , the Ontario and the Quebec acclaimed also légalisé Act rédaction of what that the snakes appelle , streets the jargon , business testaments biological . 
health British - British and at the Île - du - Prince Edward Édouard acclaimed adopted the foreign laws fell unabated matière , but celles - ci not are not yet fell vigueur . 
bye défaut of instructions écrites data préalablement pursuant at them laws of series province , the foreign directives écrites non Languages or series request introductory verbalement or by signes , fell presence of at the least one witness , constitute series request valable . 
the paragraph 3 ) 3 ) introduces that series another request can perhaps introductory by a agent , a representative légal or a conjoint , but only if the patient not has not Act ability to the make or whether , during that he fell guardian capable , he not has not done to demand valable . 
streets his report entitled : " De Act life and the Day death " , the committee sénatorial Special has défini the abstention of treatment of survival commentator étant the fact of not not amorcer a treatment susceptible of maintain the patient fell life , by example not not tenter Act réanimation cardiorespiratoire ( RCR ) , not not give series transfusion sanguine , not not administrer of antibiotics or not not ensure the alimentation and the hydratation artificielles . 
he has défini the discontinuance commentator the fact of cesser a treatment susceptible of maintain the patient fell life , by example débrancher the respirateur . 
the committee sénatorial Special has underlined that foreign courts Airports acclaimed recognized at them patients the right fell common law of refuser a treatment médical or the exiger that a treatment , series once began , authorized interrompu . 
streets of them Affairs commentator Malettec. Schulman , fell 1990 , Nancy B . Q Hôtel - God of Quebec , fell 1992 and streets the affair Rodriguez , fell 1993 , business courts acclaimed expressément recognized what right , even if health consequential of unabated abstention or the unabated discontinuance of treatment of survival is Act death . 
i think that he is important to revert Act certaines of these causes with you . 
streets the affair Mallettec. Schulman , fell 1990 , health Court of Appeal of the Ontario has déclaré that foreign instructions Act them transfusions sanguines data during that series patiente fell guardian capable devaient perhaps suivies , even if she never Partnerships not Act ability to prendre series decision . 
health cour has jugé that the doctor capitalists adhere them instructions écrites of a witness the Jéhovah who refuses blunt transfusion sanguine , even streets series situation of emergency where Act patiente not pouvait give his consent . 
bye them termes of health decision that she has rendue fell January 1992 streets the affair Nancy B . , health Court Superior of the Quebec has jugé that royal patiente adulte capable , atteinte of series illness incurable and alitée until at Act end of ses days , Partnerships the right to ask that his doctor débranche the respirateur who Act maintenait fell life . 
fell rendant dapper decision , the judge Dufour has quoted them sections of the Code Civil of the Quebec according lesquels Act human humaine is inviolable and nul not can perhaps forcé of subir a treatment without his consent . 
unabated affair traitait also the Day responsibility criminelle of the doctor which capitalists , at Act request for Nancy B . , débrancher the respirateur . 
after apply perhaps reporté at them sections 216 , 217 , 45 and 219 of the Code criminal , analyzed that at them provisions Act the Government homicide , the judge has conclu that a doctor not faisait not Evidence of series conduct déraisonnable , gratuite or insouciante fell débranchant the respirateur of series patiente at Act request for celle - ci and fell laissant Act illness of health patiente suivre his surveillance naturel . 
fell 1993 , Rand the judge Sopinka , the Day Court Supreme of the Canada , who has rédigé Act decision majoritaire streets the affair Rodriguez , has also acknowledged the right to them patients of not not consentir at a treatment or the ask that the treatment authorized interrompu , even if health death capitalists fell résulter . 
he is important to apply remind that , streets what case , health majority not guardian not fell favour of the euthanasia and the Government assistance at the suicide . 
she guardian however fell favour of the right at the abstention or at the discontinuance of the treatment , right who is the objet of the bill to Bill at the study . 
however , honourable senators , the foreign witnesses acclaimed said appeared the committee Special that , streets some cases , til not Partnerships not respecté the voeu of them patients because that the Code criminal not guardian not clear and that foreign soignants craignaient of Welfare referendums responsables . 
bye cause of these testimony Act Act confusion who existe Incidence them soignants and health population fell General , the committee sénatorial Special has recommended at nouveau at the unanimously that royal common law fell vigueur authorized codifiée of way at clarify them circumstances streets lesquelles he is legally acceptable to no not fournir or the interrupt a treatment of survival . 
yet là , the committee sénatorial not guardian not the Prime at recommander that the right authorized clarifié streets what field . 
fell 1983 , health Commission of reform of the right to the Canada Partnerships recommended she also that the Code criminal authorized clarifié at bearer regard . 
since 1992 , the Association medical canadienne préconise that the Code criminal authorized clarifié fell what who pertains the right légal of allegiances end at a treatment afin of allegiances them soignants at the abri of them poursuites . 
honourable senators , the article 6 of the bill to Bill S - 2 is the most bel example of the fusionnement of mon bill to Bill original , the S - 13 , and the Government Bill of Bill of the senator Lavoie - Roux , the S - 29 . 
the bill to Bill S - 29 prévoyait the établissement of lines directrices yeas the treatment of health douleur and yeas the abstention and the discontinuance of traitements of survival . 
the article 6 of the présent bill to Bill introduces that the minister of health Health établisse , fell collaboration with them authorities Provincial and Oceans associations of them professionals of health health , the foreign lines directrices nationales relatively at the abstention and at the discontinuance of traitements of survival , at the treatment of health douleur and at them care palliative . 
the bill to Bill allows at the minister of health Health Care promote and the encourage the education of the grandfather public and health training of them professionals of health health regarding the treatment of health douleur and Oceans care palliative . 
the bill to Bill introduces also that the snakes surveille the number of once that he rereads fingertips strokes abstention or discontinuance of them traitements of survival and that the snakes dictatorship of them investigations and that the snakes circulation of them recherches at bearer effect . 
streets his report entitled : " De Act life and the Day death " , the committee Special of the Senate has recognized the importance of lines directrices nationales streets these domaines . 
the nombreux witnesses who are flocked appeared the committee acclaimed recommended that til gives davantage of information and the formation at them providers of care of health Act them care palliative and the control of health douleur . 
almost all levels witnesses who acclaimed comparu appeared the committee Special of the Senate apply accordaient at say that the foreign recherches more poussées étaient nécessaires streets these domaines . 
honourable senators , the bill to Bill S - 2 is the outcome direct the Government work of the committee Special of the Senate Act the euthanasia and the suicide attended . 
bye mon notice , he réunit them meilleurs elements of them two bills of Bill precedents who acclaimed been présentés at the Senate . 
he VI at clarify the right pénal fell codifiant Act common law existante and fell Act rendant accessible and compréhensible yeas all levels Canadians , afin of protect them patients and their providers of care of health . 
i attends with impatience the debate Act what Bill of Bill No. 
what who is more important still , I attends with impatience the study fell committee , where til examinera and débattra unabated measure of way more approfondie . 
i am particularly heureuse of health participation of the senator Lavoie - Roux , who , commentator moi , wants that foreign recommendations of the committee Special of the Senate deviennent bill . 
what Bill of Bill not is perhaps - perhaps not yet exactly what that he tangibly . 
unfortunately , fell activist that êtres humans , we cannot impotent not parfaits . 
i hope that the committee sénatorial of them Affairs legal and Constitutional examinera what Bill of Bill carefully afin of apply ensure that he répond at them needs of them Canadians and that he rereads apportera of them amendments yeas the improve at the need . 
i veux that what Bill of Bill authorized also bon that he puisse the perhaps , and I know that what is also là the desire to the senator Lavoie - Roux and the foreign other members of the committee Special of the Senate . 
i hope that we pourrons Refer what Bill of Bill quickly at the committee afin that his study , who , the example dapper nature , prendra much of time , puisse commencer without tarder , before that the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional , recognized yeas ses longues hours and his horaire chargé , not authorized at them prises with Act lourde charge of them measures legislatures of initiative ministérielle . 
honourable senators , I you invite at examiner the bill to Bill S - 2 and I you urge at the appuyer . 
the Honourable Douglas Roche : 
Mrs. the senator accepterait - she of respond at series question ? 
the senator Carstairs : 
certainly . 
the senator Roche : 
merci . 
i veux of thanking express ma recognition at the senator Carstairs yeas Act délicatesse whose she has done Evidence fell présentant his bill to Bill No. 
i hope that he rereads fingertips a debate approfondi Act unabated importante question and that til not cherchera not at apply débarrasser of what Bill of Bill at Act hurry , afin that til ait amplement the opportunity , activist at the phase of health second reading at the Senate that at the phase of the study fell committee , the fell make the examination that he deserves . 
fell guise of preparedness at ma contribution at the debate on what night , I voudrais poser two questions at the senator Carstairs , if she the wants well . 
the thanking , the senator Carstairs has said without équivoque that the bill to Bill visait at atténuer Act douleur and non at écourter Act life , but commentator the fact of atténuer Act douleur can wheel yeas effect of écourter Act life , the senator Carstairs craint - she that confirms puisse ouvrir Act door at the suicide attended ? 
she has said very clearly that the foreign traitements extraordinaires yeas prolonger Act life not are not nécessaires of a standpoint of standpoint déontologique , but , streets the treatment of them patients fell Phase terminale , not there has he not a danger that foreign various pressure apply exerçant puissent aboutir at series form of encouragement or the pression fell favour of the utilisation of médicaments atténuant Act douleur at the foreign purposes secrètes , or at the foreign purposes non déclarées openly , who consistent fell fact at écourter Act life ? 
the senator Carstairs : 
honourable senators , I thank the senator ' dapper question , because that tel is véritablement the élément essentiel of blunt Act question . 
what is why we devons wheel of them lines directrices and the foreign afford to control . 
i renverrais the senator at the catéchisme of the Church Catholic , notamment at the article 2279 , because that royal difference there is enough clearly énoncée . 
the catéchisme said rejecting : 
even if health death is jugée imminente , til not can légitimement interrupt them care ordinaires at prodiguer at a patient . 
the utilisation of analgésiques yeas atténuer them souffrances of the mourant , even at the risk of abréger ses days , perhaps perhaps considéré morally conforme at Act dignity humaine , if health death not is not voulue commentator series end or a moyen . 
yeas moi , what kind of clarification is whether necessary that if the bill to Bill not Act contains not , we devons we ensure that she there consigned . 
i think that what is already the case , but sinon , modifions - Government yeas that what authorized absolument clear . 
the senator Roche : 
i thank the Honourable Senator . 
health response is certainly useful at the essentiel of the debate . 
ma second question door Act the Code criminal . 
i cannot takers not very well why the bill to Bill cherche at codifier Act common law existante or at autoriser some mood who palatable solemn perhaps considérés commentator of them mood criminals without wheel at modify the Code criminal him ? same . 
why wants - til avoid the BNA the Code criminal fell adoptant the bill to Bill ? 
the senator Carstairs : 
honourable senators , yet series once , I thank the Honourable Senator of dapper question . 
he is interesting to souligner that , streets the Prime bill to Bill that I ai presented , he rereads Partnerships series Modified of the Code criminal . 
however , at the surveillance of the debate and the foreign discussions at the Senate , and also by Act subsequently , streets the bill to Bill of the senator Lavoie - Roux , he is became obvious that we voulions davantage that series Modified of the Code criminal . 
we tentions also the établir of them lines directrices nationales and the allegiances fell place to them measures to control and the make make the foreign experiences and the foreign travaux of research Act the control of health douleur . 
( Act Act motion of the senator DeWare , at the name of the senator Lavoie - Roux , the debate is adjourned . ) 
health strategy of the housing yeas them aboriginal 
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate 
the Honourable Thelma J . Chalifoux , pursuant at the notice rose the 14 October 1999 : 
perhaps honourable senators , he is difficult yeas Act plupart of them Canadians to understand why he persiste of them differences between them conditions of life and Oceans challenges of them aboriginal and ceux of them other citizens of the Canada . 
he is also difficult yeas eux of understanding why he tangibly adopt the foreign solutions différentes fell reason for health situation , the foreign rights , the foreign values and the Government potentiel of them aboriginal . 
confirms is perhaps - perhaps difficult at understand , but he is essentiel of the understanding yeas power progresser fell harmonie . 
health strategy of the housing VI at determine whether them récentes decisions of the government federal permettront of improving them conditions of housing of them families aboriginal and if the importantes improvements arresting perhaps Location at Act strategy fédérale actuelle . 
what document of work is destiné at facilitate a exodus dialogue Act them principales caractéristiques of series strategy which we fera entrer streets the next century and based Act meilleure way of health allegiances fell implementation . 
we awakened chosen to us arrêter Act them forces of all levels Peoples at the Canada and Oceans sources of these forces yeas fell arriver at series strategy contemporaine . 
series source of strength sometimes oubliée and implementation of side is Act volonté and the right to them Peoples aboriginal - Provincial M , business Inuits and Oceans members of them First First - Request rechercher and the allegiances fell implementation their propres solutions . 
what is unabated strength who has entraîné the lancement with success of hundreds of initiatives venant of health basic . 
sometimes , thin acclaimed been gênées by the foreign tracasseries administratives or not acclaimed avoided aboutir yeas series reason quelconque . 
the other initiatives venant of them aboriginal eux - mêmes acclaimed entraîné Act constitution of them networks regional and ensuite nationaux , analyzed that the foreign institutions importantes Act lesquels we comptons now . 
if we pouvons better combiner them points forts of them aboriginal and the foreign Canadians fell General and libérer these forces yeas improve the housing , we aurons fact much more than quiconque pouvait apply there wait . 
i vais now me pencher Act Act scope and the objet of health strategy fell matière of housing yeas them families aboriginal . 
some arresting penser that we cannot awakened not need to series another study Act them conditions of housing or series study Act them façons of modify them programs nationaux streets the espoir that foreign families aboriginal puissent fell tirer some benefits . 
we analyzed of agreement . 
too of these studies acclaimed already been effectuées and acclaimed conduit at series low improvement of them conditions of life . 
the most , we awakened all avoided profiter of them advice and the Day research without precedent of health Commission Royal Act them Peoples aboriginal , fell 1996 . 
we constatons now them premières accomplishments of the initiative " Rassembler our forces " , the Mifflin Plan Action that the government federal has lancé fell January 1997 . 
we avions espéré that the other partners streets Act Confederation annonceraient eux also their plans and their priorities . 
bye what chapter , we analyzed déçus . 
some progress are évidents , but several honourable and leaders aboriginal apply préoccupent of more fell more of the lack of measures concrete prises yeas improve them conditions of housing of them families aboriginal . 
we voulons relancer a dialogue attain Act Act necessity of établir series strategy claire and more dynamic fell matière of housing yeas them families aboriginal . 
we voulons we arrêter Act the orientation future of series strategy yeas them families vivant at the outside of them reserves and the foreign Lands mises of side yeas them Peoples aboriginal streets the framework of ententes Act them claims territoriales globales . 
transport families aboriginal vivant Act these Lands acclaimed , at them termes of treaties and the Day bill , the foreign conditions of housing who diffèrent much of celles of them families vivant elsewhere . 
whereupon that he fell authorized , blunt strategy fell matière of housing doit heed account the foreign mouvements of population Act these Lands . 
much of M , the Inuits and the members of them First First submariners quitter them communaut ancestrales yeas chercher of the work , the foreign occasions prometteuses and the foreign housing convenables streets them grandes and small cities of the Canada . 
what is series trend croissante who paving apply pursue . 
til knows well also that their rate of natalité is supérieur at Act average national , everything commentator the number of their young is more élevé , puisque Act population autochtone is 10 years later jeune that royal population fell General . 
he rereads has 50 years , til dénombrait less of 200 40,000 aboriginal . 
today today , he rereads fell has more of 1 million who vivent at the Canada . 
what figure not comprend not however Act population of them M of the country . 
much of other aboriginal vivent at them States - U.S. and arresting or non revert at the country after their years of work . 
til introduces that royal population autochtone paving augmenter de400 40,000 persons at the surveillance of health next generation . 
ses conditions payroll and Economic not connaîtront that the modest improvements . 
series strategy fell matière of housing reasonable doit power respond at them needs futurs prévus of health population autochtone and at them nouvelles priorities . 
i vais now explain why them conditions and Oceans problems of housing of them aboriginal are différents . 
series reason importante yeas laquelle more of health half of them families aboriginal vivent today today streets of them housing inférieurs at them standards is series grande poverty persistante . 
much are often Act the standpoint of apply retrouver streets Act street or submariners vivre streets of them communaut rural , urbaines and isolées already surpeuplées . 
transport jobs that foreign aboriginal trouvent are evil rémunérés and they repositories utiliser at the maximum their chèque of paye yeas respond at them needs fondamentaux fell nourriture and fell Clothing of families more nombreuses that royal average . 
til estimated that the Income of employment of them aboriginal correspond at the two tiers of gerrymandering of health average national . 
more of 40p. cent of between eux not specialist not to income of employment fell 1995 . 
they acclaimed little or not to credit . 
that arriverait - he if them aboriginal devaient obtain Act parité with them Canadians afford fell matière of employment and the salary ? 
Évidemment , confirms their assurerait a level of life supérieur and foremost the Canada fell profiterait . 
fell 1991 , the former minister of them Foreign Indian and the Government North Heritage , Thomas Siddon , Marsden that , run he rereads Partnerships parité of here the 2000 2000 , the product attain gross of the Canada permettrait of accroître them incomes fiscaux of the government federal - 4,3 billion to $ and the reduce Act debt national of 20 billion to $ . 
health commission Royal there is allée of dapper own analysis Act what standpoint . 
she has estimé that he fell coûterait at the Canada 7,5 billion to $ annuellement activist that foreign circumstances Economic and payroll of them Peoples aboriginal demeureraient inférieures at Act average national . 
he regardless of noter that what amount correspond at series loss of income net of 2,9 billion to $ yeas them Peoples aboriginal , combinée at a cost fiscal of 4,6 billion to $ , there including 2,1 billion to $ Subcommittee form of lack at gagner yeas the government . 
unfortunately , series strategy visant at respond at them needs fell matière of housing devra composer with a problem of poverty aiguë chez them aboriginal , because that nothing not indique that foreign disparités Economic and payroll between Act population fell General and Oceans aboriginal submariners soon disparaître . 
health récente hausse of them rate of literacy and the foreign niveaux of education fell General aidera certaines families , but them housing adéquats demeureront inabordables yeas a well too grandfather number of Aboriginal . 
transport écarts Economic acclaimed been réduits much too slowly at the surveillance of them 20 dernières years yeas laisser croire that the snakes apply is occupé of the problem of health poverty chez them aboriginal . 
certaines are more évidentes that the other . 
prises together , these reasons acclaimed causé much of difficulties . 
if we voulons we doter of series strategy fell matière of housing who richly Act to them bases solides , he serait sage of examiner certaines of these reasons . 
health discrimination Subcommittee toutes ses forms remains the genus of them causes who expliquent Act triste situation of the housing chez them aboriginal . 
she portait at unabated époque the appellation of Corporation centrale of hypothèques and the housing . 
nearly of 30 years later later , the program of housing rural at the intent of them aboriginal has seen the day . 
the Program of housing of them aboriginal fell milieu urbain has suivi fell 1978 . 
transport nouveaux commitments fell matière of housing streets the framework of these programs acclaimed commitments end fell same time that the government federal has ceased of prendre of them commitments fell matière of housing Housing the 1er January 1994 . Pendant blunt dapper durée , the program of housing of them aboriginal not has never done the objet of series assessment . 
transport disparités tiennent also at Act low priority granted at them questions of housing of them aboriginal . 
unabated situation could notamment apply explain by the lack of representation autochtone at the Parliament of the Canada and the participation of them aboriginal at Act function Public fédérale . 
transport arcanes of the power comptent little of Aboriginal yeas attirer the attention Act them problems croissants or Act their solutions . 
confirms permettait much more fingertips of forget them conditions streets lesquelles thin vivaient . 
fair at the moment where them Canadians commençaient at perhaps more conscients of them needs of them aboriginal , business priorities nationales acclaimed changed . 
unabated situation malheureuse fact that foreign conditions of life améliorées of them Canadians éclipsent Act reality of them aboriginal . 
honourable senators , the idea according laquelle them problems aboriginal and Oceans solutions at there apporter not représentent that series version réduite of them problems existants and the foreign solutions at apporter at the échelle of the Canada is series another reason who explique them piètres results and accomplishments at the Breast of them companies aboriginal . 
nothing not door at croire that series similar strategy ait rose to bons results at the incorrigible of them years . 
fell reality , what is a model not rose more of credibility , and the importantes studies of them conditions payroll and Economic , there including the study of December 1998 Act Act clochardise , recommandent the adoption of stratégies distinctes yeas heed account the foreign réalités auxquelles Cutbacks opposite them aboriginal . 
well that the foreign services at them aboriginal soient flocked apply add at them programs of management of the housing , business political and programs of basic are ceux who are conçus yeas résoudre them problems non aboriginal , and Oceans governments federal and provinciaux fell are them gestionnaires . 
transport problems of jurisdiction relatifs at the housing of them aboriginal établis elsewhere that Act them Lands réservées at these populations we paraissent insurmontables . 
health plupart of them authorities Provincial , territoriales and aboriginal apply fell remettent essentially at the government federal . 
pourtant , business transfers to fund , business points of tax , business powers and the administration accordent davantage of responsibilities at them provinces . 
what transfer of skills suscite Act controversy and freine Act progression of what file . 
what not are là that few - unes of them reasons who expliquent them differences observées at the subheading of the housing of them aboriginal and the foreign difficulties éprouvées at what title by these derniers . 
we them rappelons streets the espoir that thin we aideront at find the foreign solutions futures at the problem of the housing . 
he not there Partnerships not to mauvaises intentions at the departure . 
transport reasons historiques and juridico - political at Act poverty , at the impuissance and at them préjudices subis by foreign companies aboriginal soulèvent a another problem ? whose Cutbacks état Act commission Royal Canadian inquiry and Oceans testimony of nombreux leaders aboriginal . 
he paving without say that these reasons prépondérantes pèsent of everyone their poids Act the status socioéconomique inférieur of them aboriginal today today . 
honourable senators , I voudrais now parler briefly of them consequences of them stratégies fédérales passées . 
transport stratégies fédérales of them 25 dernières years acclaimed been réduites at series succession of subsidies yeas of them remises fell état , the foreign réparations of emergency , a vague program of construction domiciliaire , a program precise of construction of housing fell milieu urbain , a program of construction fell milieu rural rose yeas objective a rate of occupation of 50p. cent of them housing by the foreign aboriginal , the foreign appropriation of tax , the foreign allocations yeas the housing , and the foreign bills of auto - assistance , notamment of accession at Act ownership , who acclaimed fact term gun . 
transport authorities Provincial and municipales acclaimed participated at them Estimates engagées , but fell part only . 
bye title of example , the program of housing of them aboriginal fell milieu urbain not has been financé that by foreign loyers versés by foreign aboriginal and the foreign grants fédérales . 
the foreign committees tripartites acclaimed been constitués , auxquels participaient streets some cases of them prestataires of services . 
the foreign forecasts of spending récentes of health SCHL regarding Casual aboriginal hors reserves teamwork état of series dépense Annual of the Order of 172,5 million for $ at the subheading of the housing . 
transport programs more importants of construction fell circles urbain and rural acclaimed licences at the foreign families aboriginal of vivre streets of them housing at price reasonable . 
Quelque10 700 housing urbains are loués at the foreign families aboriginal ; he remembered notional of housing Cultural construits and gérés by series centaine of companies at but non lucratif . 
something 9 per other housing construits fell milieu rural are occupés by the foreign families aboriginal . 
health plupart acclaimed been achetés thanks at the foreign programs of assistance at the accession at Act ownership . 
these figures varient according Act source and are contestés by the nombreux leaders aboriginal . 
what are là few - uns of them results positifs of them stratégies fédérales antérieures . 
bye confirms he tangibly add them results positifs of programs of rénovation , the réparations of urgences , the search and the démonstration , without forget them programs at the intent of them persons seniors and the foreign persons disabilities . 
yeas ceux and celles who never connaîtraient not them écarts observés streets them conditions of housing , a series of tableaux consigned fell Printed . 
i déposerai Act pièce jointe . 
honourable senators , say that foreign écarts are grands not suffit not at understand Act life difficult that dictatorship them M , business Inuits and Oceans Peoples of them First First . 
series family autochtone Act three has a need impérieux of housing , compared at series family non autochtone Act ten . 
the need impérieux of housing is series measure fondamentale yeas determine that series family 21.2 streets of them conditions inférieures at Act normale and not has not them afford to apply offer series surface habitable adéquate . 
he rereads has ten , approximately 63 40,000 families aboriginal specialist a need impérieux of housing . 
health population has augmenté and the percentage of them families rose a need impérieux of housing rest three once more élevé that royal average national . 
the number of foyers not cesse of augmenter . 
the report of December 1998 - Government Group of work of the mayor Act them without - abri of Toronto révèle series another incidence of them stratégies who acclaimed échoué streets what field . 
fell 1996 , something 4 40,000 aboriginal étaient without - abri streets Act Gotcha region of Toronto . 
something 8 40,000 other risquaient of apply retrouver streets unabated situation , there including the nombreux children . 
he is prouvé that royal situation which prévaut at Toronto apply apparente at celle who has surveillance streets of other cities , notamment them six other cities Forces who are densément peuplées of Aboriginal . 
a autochtone Act five 21.2 streets seven zones métropolitaines . 
what are là of them figures terribles , but he we tangibly approfondir davantage them effects of them stratégies fédérales passées if we voulons tirer of them lessons of them mistakes and the foreign occasions ratées and miser Act them points forts . 
a result these points forts , what is the Evolution of them companies aboriginal of housing . 
these companies apply are révélées fort utiles and fiables . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
senator Chalifoux , I am désolé of you interrupt , but vos 15 minutes are écoulées . 
demandez - you the Authorized to pursue ? 
the senator Chalifoux : 
yes . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Chalifoux : 
i you thank , honourable senators . 
the foreign hundreds and the foreign hundreds of volunteers acclaimed 3.26 of their time at these companies Robbie that royal dozen of employees dévoués apply are occupés of gérer them travaux of construction , the maintain the parc of housing and the offer to them services at them locataires and at them demandeurs . 
the file urbain at him odyssey vaut now more of 500 million for $ . 
blunt series gamme of services are offerts by the staff fell station and the other services are accessibles by the intermédiaire of a network élaboré établi between various agencies of services aboriginal , what who comprend of them programs commentator the Program of assistance préscolaire at them aboriginal , business activities culturelles , health training and the placement analyzed that foreign services and activities of them centres of accueil the case échéant . 
the foreign positions are créés streets the field of health construction and the Government maintenance , the foreign contracts are accorded at the foreign companies , the foreign taxes foncières and the foreign taxes are payés , and mostly , the foreign families acclaimed Act chance to apply prendre fell main and the run lancer Act the market private . 
i dispel you parler of series family , by example . 
yeas Act first once , I dispel purchase of them oranges yeas condolences children . " 
they attendent of fell wheel Act chance eux also . 
what is a wonderful moyen of strengthen their identity , a moyen essentiel of garder them young aboriginal at the abri of them mauvaises situations streets lesquelles apply trouvent much of young , and confirms them Custody at the école . 
a modest housing streets of meilleurs quartiers has rose Act tranquillité of mind and a sentiment of security at them women , at them children and at them aînés aboriginal . 
these results not Cutbacks not them manchettes , but they acclaimed rendu Act life meilleure at much of people and they acclaimed created series ability and a desire to make well davantage . 
transport relations restent still médiocres between them aboriginal and some governments premises , but thin arresting devenir meilleures with the time . 
bye the least , business problems of housing and Oceans companies of habitation acclaimed licences of amorcer a dialogue , if nothing to another not can them rapprocher . 
transport companies of habitation aboriginal possèdent also something something of rare . 
what is Act Gotcha institution which présente a profil at day to them families aboriginal and who fournit the moyen of them rejoindre fingertips . 
their listes of attente , jointes at celles of them locataires existants , their permettent of fell savoir a little at propos of thousands of families aboriginal and at propos of the Evolution of their conditions of existence . 
confirms constitue a tool important yeas coordonner them services at them more démunis streets Act society autochtone . 
quels are them choice yeas series future strategy visant at respond at them needs of them aboriginal fell matière of housing and at them nouvelles priorities ? 
transport conditions gloomy of housing that familiar them Peoples aboriginal suffisent at exiger that til particulars of them measures . 
despite confirms , the other priorities apply Cutbacks day who requièrent the attention . 
according to them figures récents , 46p. cent of them children aboriginal of less of five years who vivent streets them grandes zones métropolitaines vivent streets of them families monoparentales . 
what rate represents seven once the rate yeas Act population fell General . 
nearly of a tiers of all levels children aboriginal vivent streets of them families monoparentales . 
health plupart of them families monoparentales acclaimed at their tête series wife . 
he faudra allegiances fell place series strategy extremely well coordonnée yeas satisfaire at them needs of these families fell matière of housing and the health , yeas satisfaire at their needs Cultural and Economic and yeas satisfaire at them needs of them young children . 
health trend demographics fact ressortir the jeune age of health population autochtone , and unabated trend apply poursuivra . 
the number of children of less of five years by wife autochtone fell age of procréer is 70 once more élevé that the rate yeas the total of health population canadienne . 
the foreign salaires bas and a rate of unemployment élevé are caractéristiques Incidence them young , yet more Incidence them young aboriginal . 
since that he has been overburdened end at Act construction of nouveaux housing subventionnés fell 1994 , health list of them aboriginal fell attente of a housing apply is allongée . 
he is obvious that the parc of housing Cultural Present not can accueillir them families aboriginal or not them accepte not . 
these dernières years , business provinces acclaimed reduced their commitments or there acclaimed overburdened end and he not existe not to figure fiable Act the number of families aboriginal logées streets of them housing Cultural . 
he regardless of make remarquer that foreign housing Cultural are attribués Act Act basic of health vérification of health solvabilité and the Government doorstep of the Income , what who interdit the access to them aboriginal at the foreign housing subventionnés destinés at them non - native . 
health commission Royal has estimé that he arranged necessary to construire 17 40,000 nouveaux housing and the procéder at the importants travaux of réparation Act 37 40,000 other yeas power résorber the arriéré between 1996 and 2016 . 
fell outre , 21 600 nouveaux foyers dus at Act growth demographics and at Act training of nouvelles families auront also need to aid . 
without assistance financière , the level of life of these people should baisser still , and the number of families streets the need should augmenter . 
bye Act subsequently of them decisions prises recently by the government federal , the foreign fund yeas the administration of them housing Cultural acclaimed been transférés at them provinces who acclaimed accepted bearer arrangement . 
the Ontario , the Quebec , health British - British and the Alberta acclaimed now opté yeas unabated formula . 
transport agreements of transfer couvrent them programs of housing yeas them aboriginal streets them zones rural and urbaines . 
the process of transfer has provoqué énormément of conflits and the différends between Act SCHL and Oceans providers of housing aboriginal . 
notamment , business companies urbaines of housing autochtone acclaimed préconisé of them transfers directs at them companies of housing autochtone by the intermédiaire of agreements négociés and the one body attain of coordination . 
unabated Position is well connue and is antérieure at Act policy of transfer of them programs at them provinces . 
what kind of arrangement has the foreign precedents notamment streets them centres of Training and the accueil . 
transport argumentations against foreign transfers fédéraux at them provinces are historiques , constitutionnels and profondément enracinés streets them objectives of autodétermination of them Peoples aboriginal . 
thin insistent also Act the lack of consultation at the hook of these transfers . 
the véritables consultations constitute a principle cher streets the Evolution of them relations with them Peoples aboriginal and a principle supported by Act Court Supreme of the Canada streets of them judgments commentator the judgment Sparrow . 
he rereads has also the foreign reasons of political and the functioning quotidien at Act contestation of them transfers provinciaux . 
fell fact , nothing not prouve that foreign provinces arresting better administrer of them programs that foreign companies urbaines of housing autochtone . 
aucune assessment indépendante not the has never révélé non more . 
by against , til knows that the foreign measures clés commentator the établissement of the loyer fell function of the Income of them locataires arresting perhaps modifiées unilatéralement at the gré of them provinces . 
health SCHL has unsuccessfully of ensure at them companies of housing yeas aboriginal that their interests streets their stock of housing are protected streets them agreements of transfer and that thin not apply fell porteront not more evil . 
these assurances acclaimed been very little convaincantes . 
thin croient wheel the right , well mérité , the prendre of them decisions thin - mêmes . 
if thin décident of conclude of them agreements with them provinces or with them administrations locales by Act subsequently , what arranged their choice , a choice fondé Act their political and based their programs . 
health issue is the savoir apply he tangibly annuler the transfer of them programs aboriginal and negotiate the foreign agreements of transfer with them companies of housing yeas aboriginal who the désirent or laisser fell place Act strategy fédérale of transfer of them responsibilities at them provinces . 
the very solides arguments acclaimed been présentés fell favour of the replacement , by a model autochtone , the Government model of them needs impérieux who measure the character affordable , the adaptation at them needs and Oceans standards of conformité streets Act society canadienne . 
yeas of them reasons évidentes , what model tiendrait account also the Day security of health family and the foreign practices culturelles . 
he refléterait better health reality autochtone when he remembered notional of évaluer them needs and the élaborer of them stratégies yeas there respond . 
he permettrait of concevoir at the future of them stratégies Act the housing yeas achieve the foreign objectives that poursuivent already of them companies of housing who never are at somewhat close not reconnues by foreign governments . 
fell poursuivant these objectives , til assurera of them abris at them aboriginal , til tiendra account the foreign needs of them grands - parents and the foreign aînés , the foreign practices spirituelles , the Government access at them activities culturelles , the foreign programs of health petite boyhood and the foreign services aboriginal regarding the assistance financière and the assistance fell matière of employment . 
health strategy of housing should perhaps more at same of protect them families of the crime and the Day violence whose thin arresting perhaps victims at cause of their heritage autochtone . 
transport changes Location at Act Act national Act the habitation and at Act Act Act Act Corporation canadienne of hypothèques and the housing , who acclaimed received Act Assent Royal the 17 June 1999 , laughed rose at Act SCHL of them outils more solides yeas accorder of the assistance and traiter with the foreign types more nombreux of organizations , if til fell believes the témoignage of them officials of health SCHL , who acclaimed been entendus by the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology the 9 June 1999 . Ce power accru facilitera can - perhaps the transfer of powers réels and the one certain control at series nouvelle administration autochtone of the housing . 
unabated strategy correspond at Act principale recommendation that has formulée the committee Standing of them Affairs aboriginal fell 1992 after the longues deliberations and consultations . 
the committee , formé of representatives of all levels parties , has between other recommended that the funding for them housing aboriginal authorized administré by the entremise of a odyssey body whose the mandate comprendrait the octroi of loans , the EI , the élaboration of political , health prise of decisions , health management of programs , health research , health training , the development economic and the funding . 
bye the surveillance of a récent congrès Act the housing organized by the Assembly of them First First , business leaders acclaimed préconisé series structure similaire yeas satisfaire at them needs of them members of them First First . 
health nouvelle administration autochtone of the housing serait indépendante and aurait Act ability to make the foreign laws yeas them aboriginal . 
she aurait also the power to negotiate the foreign ententes with the foreign departments fédéraux analyzed that the coordonner or the offer at the foreign thousands of families of them services of Training and the placement , the foreign services relatifs at the development of them young children , the foreign services of health and the education and the Government assistance at the development of them businesses . 
series telle strategy permettrait also at them companies of the housing of make more with them resources Projections at their provision . 
health difference between the rate créditeur federal and the rate débiteur federal could serve at financer more of maisons and at appuyer Act research Act them meilleures initiatives and health management . 
confirms permettrait also the élaborer of nouveaux services and products reliés at them emprunts hypothécaires yeas help them families aboriginal . 
these services palatable englober the achat and the maintenance of premises yeas them students and Oceans care of health , car he serait possible for better utiliser them something 200 million for $ that dépense the government federal yeas these premises . 
honourable senators , the transfer of these attributions fédérales can apply make without that he authorized necessary to adopt the nouvelles provisions legislatures . 
he particulars probably that the Prime Minister apply prévale of them powers that wouldn confère Act Act Act them restructurations and Oceans transfers to attributions streets the administration Public , and that the everything authorized officialisé by the foreign agreements of transfers adéquats . 
bye term term , til could propose and adopt the nouvelles provisions legislatures visant at reconnaître the existence of authorities locales aboriginal fell matière of housing , authorities whose business powers , business duties and Oceans caractéristiques Act the Mifflin legal petitioners uniques . 
these authorities locales not uncovered more of them companies without but lucratif and thin palatable create the foreign companies and the foreign jobs streets their communities . 
thin uncovered the expression of the autodétermination of them aboriginal . 
what is at them legislators that he appartient now the allegiances fell implementation series strategy autochtone globale audacieuse or the simply retoucher Act strategy fédérale existante . 
the government apply penche Act them graves circumstances that vivent them families susceptibles of apply retrouver streets Act street , or who there are already , there including individuals families aboriginal . 
we croyons that , streets them grandes cities , the system which fournit of them services at them without - abri aboriginal is Act clé of blunt strategy visant at help these without - abri and that blunt injection of money nine should apply make at the moyen of what system . 
health research indique of way convaincante that he tangibly élaborer without tarder series strategy and a plan to Action yeas allegiances fell implementation of them solutions at what problem urgent . 
Étant rose that Health Canada has déclaré that a foyer adéquat guardian déterminant yeas Act health , the problem of them without - abri exige that the foreign measures soient prises blocks now . 
we devons And seriously them recommendations formulées by subsequently of Studies , the investigations and the testimony afin of introduce to them advice precise . 
transport recommendations and the Mifflin Plan Action aideront Act Minister responsible for them without - abri . 
unabated study not doit not perhaps reléguée at them oubliettes . 
fell activist that Canadians and parliamentarians , we devons non only respond at what need urgent , but also élaborer a plan to Action who donnera at toutes them families aboriginal Governance place who their revient streets Act society canadienne . 
transport companies of housing yeas them aboriginal possèdent series expertise . 
thin acclaimed only need to series opportunity and the one transfer of skills yeas make their work . 
honourable senators , ai - I Act leave of déposer Act pièce jointe whose I ai spoke ? 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Chalifoux : 
merci . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Rompkey , the debate is adjourned . ) 
( the Senate apply ajourne at the Wednesday 3 November 1999 , at 1:30 1:30 30 . ) 
debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
2e Session , Session Session , 
volume 138 , Issue 5 
the Wednesday 3 November 1999 
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker 
table of them Contents 
health crisis Farm actuelle 
health leave of ajourner pursuant at the article 60 of the rules afin of examiner series question urgente of interest public 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
transport and Communications 
Authorized at the committee of sit fell same time that the Senate 
the Comité of selection 
Presented of the fourth report 
the Code criminal 
bill to Bill Amend - Première Reading 
the Union Inter 
health four - vingt - ten - eighth conference tenue at Oulan Batour , fell Mongolie - ô of the report of the group Heritage 
health Act Act them languages Languages 
transport services fell French offerts at them francophones hors Quebec - Notice of inquiry 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
health Court Supreme 
health appointment of the Honourable Beverley McLachlin at the station of Justice fell Opposition 
health defence national 
health restructuring of them units of contingency of the Canada Atlantic - Ex 1er Régiment of artillerie of campaign to the Artillerie Royal canadienne 
the Senate 
transport efforts visant at accroître Act representation of them minorities visible 
the development of them resources Resources 
transport efforts visant at accroître Act representation of them minorities visible 
transport First overseeing 
the désarmement nucléaire - Possibility policy of the government opposite at Act resolution of health York Agenda Coalition 
transport Affairs Foreign 
the Insignia ambassador auprès of the Organization World of the trade - Possibility possibility of a contract of consultation with the employer of the former ambassador - Request for Tabling of documents 
transport finances 
health dévaluation of the dollar - Ex influence Act the achat of compagnies Forces by the foreign interests étrangers 
answers delayed at the foreign questions Oral 
the Environment 
health Nova Scotia Nova Scotia Position responsibility to health décontamination of them sites of déchets toxiques 
health defence national 
health Nova Scotia Nova Scotia Position responsibility to the nettoyage of them dégâts causés by foreign inondations streets the comté of Cumberland 
transport travaux of the Senate 
orders OF THE 
the speech of the Trône 
motion of Adopted of the adresse fell response - Continued of the debate 
the Adresse fell response - Motion Refer at allegiances end at the debate on eighth day to postponement - Adjourned of the debate 
the Code criminal 
bill to Bill Amend - Second Reading 
referred at the committee - Adoption of health motion of amendment 
routine legal and Constitutional 
motion demandant the Authorized to utiliser them documents and testimony recueillis lors of the examination of the bill to Bill precedent yeas the study of the bill to Bill Present - Adjourned of the debate 
transport consequences of the Union Monetary European 
Authorized at the committee of them Affairs Foreign of engager of the staff 
routine Foreign 
health Modified of the mandate of the Organization of the Traité of the Atlantic North - Adopted of the report budgétaire of the committee Act the study 
transport stratégies visant at respond at them needs of them aboriginal fell matière of housing 
inquiry 
health crisis streets the sector Farm 
Final Report series question of emergency Public fell vertu of the article 60 of the rules 
the SENATE 
the Wednesday 3 November 1999 
health postponement is ouverte at 1:30 1:30 30 , the Speaker étant at the fauteuil . 
prayers . 
health crisis Farm actuelle 
health leave of ajourner pursuant at the article 60 of the rules afin of examiner series question urgente of interest public 
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson : 
honourable senators , I prends Act parole today today yeas ask Act tenue of a debate on emergency Act Act crisis Farm . 
i believe understand that I dois convince His Honour analyzed that condolences colleagues on the emergency of health situation . 
i query say to entrée of stake that the committee sénatorial Standing of the Agriculture and the foreign Forestry has recueilli during more of a 2000 and half of them testimony of representatives of groupements of farmers , primarily ceux of the west of the Canada . 
these representatives we acclaimed entretenus of them problems that they familiar currently . 
i believe that our committee has prêté series oreille attentive at their doléances , who étaient sérieuses . 
transport premiers ministers of the Manitoba and the Day Saskatchewan apply are sentis something little déçus of health response that they acclaimed reçue at the surveillance of them discussions that they acclaimed eues recently with the Prime Minister and the minister of them Finance . 
he rereads has streets the west of the Canada a carking sentiment of désaffection and the carking . 
i cannot mentionnerai not to figures today today because that til fell has already much rose streets unabated enceinte and that til fell has the elsewhere spoke yesterday . 
however , health tragedy humaine who faces product currently streets the West is very grave . 
i ai spoke yesterday at the foreign people who faces occupent of them services of assistance téléphonique . 
they me acclaimed indiqué that he rereads Partnerships already strokes eight suicides . 
the last fell date is gerrymandering of a man , father of four children , who faces is suicidé after wheel been abandonné by Hon. wife at cause of health difficult situation streets laquelle they apply trouvaient . 
honourable senators , we analyzed all of them adults responsables . 
unabated crisis is tellement grave that she remet fell question our ability to represent our regions and the assumer our responsibilities loyalty the country everything entier . 
honourable senators , he rereads has several subjects whose I query you entretenir . 
however , I believe that the aspect of health tragedy humaine is the most important . 
we devons lancer a Appeal at bearer regard . 
the time press . 
he remembered notional véritablement of series situation of emergency who exige that we prenions of them measures blocks now . 
health crisis economic actuelle not touche not simply them exploitations agricultural . 
she has also the foreign repercussions Act them vendeurs of machinerie , business manufacturers and the Employment streets his together . 
each vendeur of machinerie is series petite plant . 
til there remet at nine them tracteurs and the other machines agricultural . 
when business farmers not acclaimed not to silver , these businesses Cutbacks bankruptcy and the foreign people perdent their employment . 
the government devra their verser of the EI - unemployment . 
he is essentiel of not not laisser unabated situation perdurer , the cheering remédier quickly and efficacement . 
i voudrais parler of them repercussions of health crisis streets them municipalities rural . 
series dizaine of municipalities rural acclaimed decided , by vote , the Extend the levy to them taxes premises . 
i ai spoke at the chairman of the council municipal of health municipally of Wellington , at the north of Weyburn , fell Saskatchewan . Il has déclaré that what not is not because that foreign farmers not veulent not payer their taxes , but unsuccessfully that they not acclaimed not the money yeas the make . 
health situation has the foreign repercussions Act blunt Act Saskatchewan streets of nombreux sectors . 
honourable senators , I veux parler of them repercussions of unabated situation Act blunt our Nation . 
confirms not touchera not simply Act Saskatchewan , the Manitoba and certaines regions of the Alberta , but everything the country . 
the most , confirms not apply product not simply at the Canada but streets the world entier , at cause of them grants and the rest . 
we connaissons all levels reasons . 
streets a section of newspaper , til said that after a retard of nine days , the chairman Clinton has signed a agreed Farm who introduces series assistance to emergency at them farmers to 8,7 billion to $ . 
fell response at confirms , the chairman of the committee of the Agriculture has déclaré : 
i am pleased that the chairman ait signed what Bill of Bill important , even if I cannot comprends not why he has activist tardé . 
honourable senators , what is series situation very grave who deserves a debate streets unabated enceinte . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
his Honour the Speaker : 
i tiens at remind at them honourable senators that the rules introduces of them interventions of 5 minutes by Senator and 15 minutes of debate at the total . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I interviens fell activist that Leader Deputy of the government at the Senate . 
Étant rose that royal decision is laissée at Act discrétion of His Honour the Speaker , I vais perhaps very prudent streets condolences propos . 
honourable senators , the senator Gustafson we took fact share of his intention of raise Act question . 
we the awakened listened and we analyzed everything at fact disposés at laisser the Speaker apply prononcer at what topic pursuant at the rules . 
i cannot ai not to observation particulière at make . 
i ferais remarquer , however , that we analyzed all well conscients of what that the senator Gustafson has said at propos of them travaux of the committee sénatorial of the Agriculture . 
we analyzed happy to laisser at the Speaker : soin of decide , pursuant at the rules , run he remembered notional of series question of interest public urgente . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
Êtes - you fell favour or non ? 
the senator Hays : 
i cannot ai not Act prétention of say at the Speaker whereupon make because that I diminishes the rules . 
i believe that the Speaker doit prendre series decision fell function of what that he has heard . 
the senator Kinsella : 
no prostituted - you not to opinion ? 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
there has he or non series crisis ? 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
honourable senators , I cannot ai not autant of credibility that the senator Gustafson referred what topic , but I am Act daughter of a farmer of health region of them lacs of the Manitoba . 
til discute of health crisis Farm since the foreign months . 
during what time , business farmers acclaimed been acculés at the foot of the mur because that their marges of profit apply are resserrées . 
transport costs échappent at the control of them farmers . 
transport price are fixés by foreign markets internationaux and they échappent also at their control . 
health competition is impossible at cause of them grants versées by the Union European and Oceans States - U.S. . 
even if them farmers arresting compter Act the Income of a or two jobs at the outside of health ferme , they are lourdement endettés and risquent Act bankruptcy . 
they palatable losing their earth , their heritage , their source of income and the mode of life auquel they are profondément attachés . 
honourable senators , business tragedies personnelles not Cutbacks not always the objet of urgences nationales , but I vais énumérer few reasons who expliquent why Act crisis is urgente at the standpoint of justify a debate on emergency . 
the thanking , health week dernière , the foreign producers agricultural and Oceans premiers ministers of the Manitoba and the Day Saskatchewan are flocked at Ottawa yeas ask the assistance to the government federal . 
they savaient that he guardian impérieux that foreign producers reçoivent of other payments to here December yeas avoid Act bankruptcy before the spring . 
commentator we the savons , the government has refused to injecter of nouvelles impotent of money and Oceans Banking uncovered now forcées of procéder at the foreign saisies . 
deuxièmement , the Program of assistance fell case of catastrophe liée at the Income Farm , who capitalists fill series lacune streets them programs existants of security of the Income Farm , is a disaster . 
bye the Manitoba , more of 55p. cent of them farmers whose health request has been traitée until at présent not acclaimed received aucune assistance . 
troisièmement , the impact of health crisis Farm is ressenti non only by foreign exploitations agricultural familiales , but also by almost everything the world fell milieu rural . 
transport people cannot cripple payer their factures . 
they achètent less of machines agricultural . 
transport écoliers utilisent their fournitures scolaires of the year précédente . 
almost everything the world doit apply serrer Act ceinture , rogner Act everything and souffrir . 
quatrièmement , the level of stress augmente quickly chez them farmers and their families and streets them towns rural . 
he suffit of lire them letters adressées by the foreign children at the Prime Minister yeas see at breaching standpoint them parents are devenus stressés . 
transport enjeux acclaimed been clarifiés and health crisis has been implementation fell light lors of rencontres that I ai eues here and at the Manitoba with the foreign delegations of farmers désespérés . 
he we acclaimed been very reconnaissants of them wheel entendus here , at the Senate . 
they are terriblement secoués and démoralisés by the foreign forces who échappent completely at their control . 
how pouvons - we , at the Senate , regarder Act situation apply détériorer davantage without accorder series attention appropriée at their concerns streets the framework of a debate on emergency ? 
the Honourable Ron Ghitter : 
honourable senators , I interviens yeas encourage the Speaker at permettre Act tenue of a debate on emergency Act what topic . 
fell activist that citadin , I me sense much more at the aise them inches Act the asphalte that Act Act earth , but I envisage the importance of our world Farm of the standpoint of standpoint of something a who has been a representative elected fell Alberta durant eight years and the Government standpoint of standpoint of a senator who has rencontré at maintes occasions of them people issus of the world Farm . 
bye the incorrigible of them years , I traitais fell blaguant condolences friends farmers to " pleurnichards " , and the people who never are never contents . 
what is amended the mauvais time , authorized the price of the Wheat , authorized the amount of them grants , or still the surveillance of the dollar when they submariners fell vacances at the sun . 
end August , the senator Gustafson me has guest at series rencontre at Ottawa with a group of farmers to health Saskatchewan and the Government Alberta . 
several of condolences colleagues étaient là also . 
we awakened spoke of what that foreign farmers vivaient . 
what not étaient not to them people who parlaient haut and fort and who cherchaient at attirer the attention . 
when I them ai regardés streets them yeux , I ai seen Act afraid . 
when I them ai écoutés , I pouvais hear streets their voices of them trémolos trahissant them larmes that they essayaient of retenir . 
when I ai réfléchi at what that they specialist at say , I am became very inquiet , non only yeas eux , but also yeas Act population Farm of the Canada . 
i ai examined what that they specialist at say , analyzed that what that foreign senators Spivak and Gustafson me specialist said . 
ensuite , when I ai regardé the graphique who indiquait that the Income Farm net réalisé , exprimé fell $ constants of 1998 , guardian past the 700 million for $ that he guardian of 1993 at 1997 , at 400 million for $ fell 1998 , at least 48 million for $ fell 1999 , I ai including what whose they parlaient . 
we cannot we trouvons not appeared series situation where the foreign people viennent réclamer a little more of assistance at the government . 
what are the foreign people who are at the bord of the gouffre . 
their survival is fell train of apply play . 
til could apply amuser with them figures during still long , but the fact is that royal situation is urgente streets them regions rural of the Canada . 
streets the West , she is the most fell more urgente ; them figures are effarants . 
what is everything a mode of life who is menacé streets the west of the Canada , Your Honour . 
venant of the Manitoba , you savez what that confirms wants say . 
transport towns rural , the control of them resources agricultural , the cost of them foods and health survival of thousands of Canadians are fell stake . 
i remarque , by example , that the senator Hays has owed accept a Insignia employment . 
the Income Farm has tellement diminué that he has accepted the station of Leader Deputy at the Senate . 
commentator til the has said , the aliénation of the West ... 
his Honour the Speaker : 
i regret to duty interrupt the Honourable Senator Ghitter , but Act period of 15 minutes ago expiré . 
however , he can continue apply he obtient the Authorized . 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
veuillez pursue . 
the senator Ghitter : 
health week dernière , the Prime Minister Romanow and the Prime Minister Doer étaient at Act tête of series delegation , at Ottawa , yeas ask at the government federal series assistance to 1,3 1.1 of $ yeas them farmers . 
transport farmers to the West , who croyaient that series assistance immediate viendrait , fondaient of grands espoirs Act them rencontres . 
however , their espoirs acclaimed been déçus . 
health delegation is repartie them mains vides , except that til him has presented series nouvelle series of figures . 
i think that the incident has underlined the emergency of health situation , at savoir that foreign farmers to the West voulaient résoudre Act crisis Act week dernière . 
she never gave not been résolue , and we , honourable , devons now the examiner of blunt emergency yeas venir immediately fell assistance at them farmers to the West . 
if we attendons more long , he arranged can - perhaps too later . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I thank all levels senators who acclaimed participated at the debate yeas determine apply he rereads has or non situation urgente . 
commentator he has been underlined , the Speaker doit trancher . 
i veterinary them senators at the paragraph 60 ( 1 ) the Government Rules , who énonce them conditions who repositories perhaps réunies . 
i quote : 
60 . ) 1 ) has ) doit wheel trait at series emergency exodus and nécessiter the attention immediate of the Senate ; 
b ) not doit not relancer series discussion already abordée durant Act same session pursuant at the présent section of the rules ; 
transport alinéas has ) and b ) me permettent of croire at the course - fondé of health proposal . 
Seneca what that says the alinéa who suit : 
bearer alinéa not apply applies not at Act proposal at the study . 
the alinéa who suit said rejecting : 
d ) not can raise the topic who constitue essentially series question of privilege . 
bearer alinéa not apply applies not non more . 
i veterinary now them senators at the paragraph 60 ( 6 ) the Government Rules , who faces bed commentator suit : 
60 ( 6 ) has ) streets damned measure she has trait at them responsibilities administratives of the government or could relever of health jurisdiction of them departments ; 
bearer alinéa me allows the conclude at the course - fondé of health proposal . 
according the alinéa who suit : 
60 ( 6 ) b ) why he is little probable that the Senate ait series another opportunity to And Act question streets a giveaway reasonable . 
i regret that , fell reason for the alinéa b ) , health proposal not authorized not fondée . 
by elsewhere , I cannot ai heard nil notice allant at the encontre of what standpoint of standpoint . 
fell associant bearer alinéa at the whole of them conditions that I dois approve , I décide that royal leave should perhaps granted . 
the senator Hays : 
honourable senators , I voudrais thank His Honour yeas dapper decision , that we respectons . 
however , we cannot avions not prévu confirms . 
he rereads has the foreign committees which siègent bearer after - afternoon . 
i voudrais ask at them honourable senators ' well vouloir accept that what debate not ait not instead at the moment where the introduces the rules , at savoir after the Order of the day , but rather at 20 hours . 
what is a day where we tenons generally series postponement relatively courte afin of permettre at our committees of vaquer at their travaux . 
we respectons Act decision and unfeeling loans at débattre unabated question , but we préférerions that the debate ait instead at 20 hours . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , health House has recognized that series affair of series grande importance yeas the Canada apply présente at us . 
what is series emergency . 
til not saurait Act différer . 
we allons bouleverser the déroulement habituel of our travaux yeas aborder series question who , the Government Notices of what side - ci of health House , constitue series emergency national , series grande crisis , a enjeu that we cannot saurions equation at more later . 
voilà why we cannot serions not favorables at the postponement of what debate . 
we voulons fell débattre at Act end of the Order of the day , before blunt another question . 
honourable senators , I reconnais that royal question of precatory 
the senator Hays : 
honourable senators , I invoque the rules . 
the Opposition Deputy of the Opposition prononce a speech . 
i ai asked Act leave , with motif at the appui . 
bye mon notice , a simple " nay " suffit if unabated leave is refusée . 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , what is inexact . 
you not prostituted manifestement not read Act decision rendue yesterday by His Honour the Speaker . 
the senator Kinsella : 
honourable senators , business things not are not also simples that confirms . 
series part of the intervention of the Leader Deputy of the government pertains them travaux of some committees . 
i voudrais respond at what standpoint . 
if what is spécialement necessary that the committee sénatorial Standing of them transport and the foreign Communications seat fell same time that the Senate , we , the what side - ci , serions of agreement yeas the cheering autoriser . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , health leave of modify the rules is refusée . 
the rules précise very clearly that the debate on emergency fingertips instead after the épuisement of the Order of the day or , at the most later , at 20 hours what night . 
honourable senators , I attire your attention Act the paragraph 60 ( 4 ) the Government Rules . 
fell vertu of unabated provision , he is clear that " the Speaker , at the instead of mood at the Appeal of them " Déclarations of senators " , gives Act parole at them senators who acclaimed rose to them notice ... " 
fell of other mots , the debate on emergency the emporte Act them " Déclarations of senators . " 
the paragraph said " instead of mood at the Appeal ... " 
fell vertu of unabated provision , he not there fingertips not to statements of senators today today . 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
transport and Communications 
Authorized at the committee of sit fell same time that the Senate 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the paragraph 58 ( 1 ) has ) the Government Rules move : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them transport and the foreign Communications authorized authorized at sit at 3:15 1:30 30 today today , the 3 November 1999 , well that royal postponement of the Senate puisse perhaps fell surveillance , and that the application of the paragraph 95 ( 4 ) the Government Rules authorized suspendue at bearer regard . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
the Comité of selection 
Presented of the fourth report 
the Honourable Léonce Mercier : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to introduce the fourth report of the Comité of selection Convey Act Act désignation of them senators who uncovered members of them various committees particuliers during Act présente session . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
is - what the agreement , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when étudierons - we what report ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Mercier , the study of the report is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement ) 
the Code criminal 
bill to Bill Amend - Première Reading 
the Honourable Anne C . Cools : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to introduce the bill to Bill S - 9 , Act visant at modify the Code criminal ( abus of procedure ) . 
( the bill to Bill is read series first once . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we the bill to Bill series second once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Cools , health second reading of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to health postponement of Wednesday next , the 10 November 1999 . ) 
the Union Inter 
health four - vingt - ten - eighth conference tenue at Oulan Batour , fell Mongolie - ô of the report of the group Heritage 
the Honourable Sheila Finestone : 
honourable senators , I ai the privilege of déposer the report of health delegation Inter at Act subsequently of series rencontre of the Group Asia - Pacific of the Union Inter who has strokes instead at Oulan Batour , fell Mongolie , the Government 26 at the 31 July 1999 . 
health Act Act them languages Languages 
transport services fell French offerts at them francophones hors Quebec - Notice of inquiry 
the Honourable Jean - Maurice Simard : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that , the Tuesday 16 November 1999 , I attirerai the attention of the Senate Act Act situation which prévaut présentement vis - at - vis the development and the épanouissement of them communaut francophones and acadiennes , the dapper détérioration progressive , the Government désengagement of them governments at the Canada at the surveillance of them ten dernières years and the Day loss of accessibility to them services fell French . 
i profiterai of the opportunity yeas déposer mon report entitled : " De Act coupe at them lèvres , a coup of hearts apply fact wait " . 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
health Court Supreme 
health appointment of the Honourable Beverley McLachlin at the station of Justice fell Opposition 
the Honourable Marcel Prud man : 
honourable senators , commentator he not there has not strokes of period réservée at them statements of senators today today , I vais poser series question . 
what is series question very réjouissante that I vais poser at the Leader Deputy of the government . 
there fingertips he series ceremony spéciale yeas celebrate the événement particular who complements of wheel instead ? 
i veux parler of a événement historic streets our country and streets the world entier - Status appointment of Mrs. Act Justice Beverley McLachlin at the station of Justice fell Opposition of health Court Supreme of the Canada . 
the Honourable Leader Deputy of the government at the Senate not conviendrait - he not that series statement is the implementation yeas souligner a événement also extraordinary ? 
the Senate is the guardian of health tradition and he is everything at fact indiqué that he souligne the événement . 
i cannot veux not entamer a debate at what topic , but the other honourable acclaimed can - perhaps few mots at say Act bearer événement historic majeur . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I viens everything fair to learn Act nouvelle and I fell am ravi . 
health issue of the senator could perhaps interprétée of various façons . 
he request that foreign senators puissent make the foreign observations Act bearer événement marquant blocks today today , voire now , Robbie that normally , they them feraient at the surveillance of health period réservée at them statements of senators . 
i think power say at the name of condolences colleagues that he serait solemn approprié of 209 now the announcement of unabated appointment . 
suivant the precedent établi by mon homologue , the Opposition Deputy of the Opposition , I profite of what that I am debout yeas express the crux plaisir and health pride that I éprouve fell entendant that the Honourable Beverley McLachlin remplacera the judge fell Opposition Lamer of health Court Supreme of the Canada . 
Mrs. Act Justice McLachlin apply is distinguée commentator avocate and commentator Justice . 
we all who awakened strokes the privilege of pratiquer the right impotent very fiers of she . 
condolences colleagues and moi entirety that the other honourable prennent few moments yeas 209 bearer événement marquant . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , til request Act leave of hear now the foreign observations Act the topic soulevé by the Honourable Senator Prud man . 
health leave is - she granted ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
nay . 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
could - til we say damned arranged the incidence Act Act period of them questions ? 
his Honour the Speaker : 
the senator Forrestall : 
i cannot voulais not refuser the consent . 
i étais simply curieux of connaître the incidence that royal proposal aurait Act Act durée prévue of health period of them questions . 
health defence national 
health restructuring of them units of contingency of the Canada Atlantic - Ex 1er Régiment of artillerie of campaign to the Artillerie Royal canadienne 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , I ai series question at poser at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
confirms remonte at series discussion that I ai eue with his prédécesseur at the topic of health restructuring of them units of contingency at the Canada . 
certaines units are inscrites commentator étant viables , and the other commentator étant non viables . 
without too compliquer them things , he not there has not to doubt streets mon spirit that I ai been gravement induit fell mistake . 
i ai chosen to add faith at confirms because that three or four persons différentes étaient fell train of respond at Act request for Information . 
confirms pertains the 1er regiment of campaign to the Artillerie Royal canadienne , whose the quartier General apply trouve at Halifax . 
what is series unity that the minister connaît fort well and whose he is without doubt enough proud fell activist that Scotians - Scotians . 
til has recognized at unabated unity a level of effectifs fell activité of 93,1p. cent and a rate of efficience of 88,5p. cent . 
til account at the least 15 units of contingency at the Canada who are qualifiées of non viables . 
however , aucune of between thin not has a file similar . 
confirms has provoqué blunt series brouille between the apparatus of health contingency at the Canada and the government Present , yeas of them reasons commentator celles - ci , I guess . 
i estimated that unabated unity deserves the foreign excuses . 
i think that royal human blunt désignée yeas make these excuses is nul another that the minister responsible for health Nova Scotia Nova . 
i cannot request not to them negotiations prolongées at bearer regard , but the simples excuses yeas the mistake , somewhat regardless how she has been commise . 
the minister may - he ask series réévaluation of health cote granted at unabated unity historic of health Nova Scotia Nova at the surveillance of the process of réévaluation ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , at ma knowledge , the government has always supported the role important that joue Act contingency streets everything the country . 
i know that , streets ma region , we allons mood series commande yeas two impressionnantes facilities at Sydney , fell Nova Scotia Nova , who serviront at Act contingency . 
i believe savoir that these facilities amélioreront nettement the functioning of health contingency streets Act region . 
the unity at laquelle the Honourable Senator fact allusion , the 1er regiment of campaign to the Artillerie Royal canadienne , is series unity remarkable whose all levels Scotians - Scotians arresting perhaps fiers . 
i him request for make Evidence of a little of patience , the time that I me renseigne auprès of the minister at what topic . 
i hope power fournir at the senator Forrestall series response précise at dapper question . 
the senator Forrestall : 
honourable senators , loin of moi the idea of parler at the name of the regiment . 
the one another side , the Lieutenant - Colonel Doyle has shirts hear , streets them commentaires that he has facts he rereads has few months , that at his opinion , the least that puisse make the CFT yeas apaiser Act situation serait of apply excuser . 
unabated unity is viable and should perhaps rétablie . 
what is perhaps - perhaps the genus of them units them more viables at the Canada . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I thank the senator yeas unabated information . 
i prends very at the sérieux them états of service of the regiment auquel he fact allusion . 
i essaierai of wheel of more amples details Act unabated question and the fournir at the senator series response satisfactorily . 
the Senate 
transport efforts visant at accroître Act representation of them minorities visible 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
health week dernière , I ai attended at series conference who Partnerships instead at Ottawa . 
i ai constaté lors of bearer événement that the government ' s Canada Partnerships échoué lamentablement yeas what who is the ouvrir Act function Public at them minorities visible . 
according the last report Act the equity streets the Employment , only 9 200 - Provincial 190 40,000 officials fédéraux apply disent eux - mêmes members of minorities visible . 
confirms represents approximately 5p. cent , authorized less of health half of them 11p. cent that foreign minorities visible représentent at the Breast of health population canadienne . 
bye the Senate , according them dernières statistics that I ai avoided obtain , 1,2p. cent of them employees are members of minorities visible . 
health House of second reflection hook seriously of the footnotes and not has not su fixer series norme applicable at Act representation of them minorities visible at the Breast of toutes them businesses and the foreign agencies of the government ' s Canada . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate we dira he quels plans strategic are fell surveillance of élaboration , run he rereads fell has , yeas improve Act representation of them minorities visible at the Senate to the Canada ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , health issue fell is series who preoccupation everything the government , and not sideshow the Senate . 
fell fact , the foreign efforts are déployés since a certain time already yeas make fell sorte that the percentage of positions occupés by the foreign members of them minorities visible at the government reflects the percentage that these minorities représentent at the Breast of health population active . 
transport objectives not acclaimed not yet been atteints . 
however , he rereads has the foreign signes encourageants . 
the foreign statistics récentes that I cannot ai not fell main indiquent that foreign members of them minorities visible seem obtain the foreign promotions streets of them proportions correspondant at their percentage at the Breast of health function Public . 
what is well , but Act situation not is not entièrement satisfactorily . 
transport figures seem when same indiquer series improvement . 
Évidemment , we cherchons always at achieve our objective , who is series representation at the Breast of health function Public and the Government Senate which reflects the percentage that représentent them minorities visible streets Act population fell General . 
the development of them resources Resources 
transport efforts visant at accroître Act representation of them minorities visible 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
honourable senators , the Leader of the government at the Senate could - he transmettre these concerns at the cabinet and sensibiliser ses colleagues at the important problem of health representation inadéquate of them minorities visible at them échelons supérieurs of health function Public ? 
when the minister trouvera them statistics that he has mentionnées , he could perhaps - perhaps dresser series list and communiquer at the Senate Committee number of submarine - ministers and the subamendment - ministers adjoints who are members of minorities visible streets Act function Public canadienne , and fournir of them statistics yeas the Senate him ? same ? 
apply commits he at make confirms ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I vais certainly apporter at the Senate and give at all ceux that confirms intéresse the report that I ai mentioned . 
i cannot the ai not Subcommittee Act main streets the moment . 
however , I ai pensé that what report could intéresser the senator because that he indique non only the percentage of minorities visible , but also how these minorities visible seem avancer streets Act hiérarchie . 
i me commits at fournir these information at the senator . 
yeas what who is the Government Senate , health issue could intéresser at fair title the committee Standing of health Economy Internal , the foreign Budgets and the Government administration . 
the senator Oliver : 
honourable senators , I cannot ai never participated at them travaux of what committee . 
i hope that , streets the fiscal of ses duties , the Leader of the government at the Senate saura make Evidence of initiative and that he we soumettra these issues . 
the minister soutient that royal situation apply améliore . 
i him request for produire Act list of them Subcommittee - ministers and below - ministers adjoints faisant part of them minorities visible yeas Act good reason that I know pertinemment that they are if little nombreux that the minister fell arranged gêné . 
transport improvements auxquelles he fact allusion acclaimed been observées at them échelons inférieurs of health function Public , what who is scandaleux . 
transport First overseeing 
the désarmement nucléaire - Possibility policy of the government opposite at Act resolution of health York Agenda Coalition 
the Honourable Douglas Roche : 
honourable senators , the Leader of the government at the Senate may - he indiquer if the Canada votera solemn fell favour of health resolution of health York Agenda Coalition , currently at the study at them Nations overseeing , who enjoint of entreprendre without greater tarder them negotiations appeared aboutir at Act implementation fell place to a program of désarmement nucléaire ? 
i ai already posé Act question yesterday at the minister . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I thank our the Honourable Senator of wheel renouvelé dapper question today today . 
he not me has not yet been rose to fell parler with the minister of them Foreign Foreign and the Government Commerce international . 
the Canada has often and énergiquement supported the program of désarmement nucléaire , that he remembered agisse of volets of Order General or spécifique commentator the treatment of them Contents dangereuses laissées after the désarmement nucléaire . 
yeas what who is the Day question posée , I cannot voudrais not respond at Act place to the minister responsible and I am certain of power rapporter dapper response very quickly at the Honourable Senator . 
the senator Roche : 
i thank the minister of unabated response . 
i mover at the Leader of the government at the Senate to them transmettre of blunt emergency because that the vote at them Nations overseeing apply tiendra at the beginning of health week next . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I reconnais Act jurisdiction of the Honourable Senator fell Act matière and the role exceptionnel that he has played streets them questions of désarmement . 
i serai ravi of recevoir these documents and I him promets of parler at the minister before Act end of health week . 
transport Affairs Foreign 
the Insignia ambassador auprès of the Organization World of the trade - Possibility possibility of a contract of consultation with the employer of the former ambassador - Request for Tabling of documents 
the Honourable James F . Kelleher : 
Koppel . Marchi has remplacé a fonctionnaire very respecté rose more of 20 years of experience fell matière of Commerce international , Rand John Weekes . 
you you rappellerez can - perhaps that , health week dernière , Rand Weekes has been elected at the station prestigieux of President of the Council General of the OMC , who comprend more of 130 members . 
according a section of the National Post fell date of the 12 October 1999 , Rand Weekes has accordé dapper first interview since that he has been évincé of the station of ambassador of the Canada auprès of the OMC and has said that he guardian now chairman chargé of them practices commerciales mondiales yeas APCO , who is a cabinet validate of expert - advice . 
the article révèle also queM. Weekes continues to perhaps a advisor Main auprès of the government Heritage . 
the senator Kinsella : 
what is series good question . 
yes or non ? 
the senator Kelleher : 
series simple answer fera the affair . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
merci , Honourable Senator . 
i veux well respond also briefly and also directly that possible , but series response by yes or by non not suffira can - perhaps not . 
i cannot organize not the former Incumbent of the station . 
he doit manifestement perhaps a man very distingué yeas wheel avoided apply find also quickly a station also important streets the sector private . 
i organize the Incumbent Present , who affiche a bilan very distingué non only Act Act scène Public , at the government , but also streets the sector of the trade . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
the file of the MMT guardian the sien , not is - what not ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
ses offender repositories generally perhaps well considérés . 
the experience that he has acquise streets the sector of the trade and at the government Cutbacks of him exactly the type of candidate who convient at what kind of station . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
he has voted against the free - Exchange , you fell souvenez - you ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
i am course that nil of between us not souhaite that soient écartés of them candidates simply because that they acclaimed commitments share at Act life Public , commentator we the cynicism now . 
i brevity the government ' health appointment of the Incumbent Present . 
yeas what who is the foreign markets conclus with the foreign consultants , I am certain that the government ' s Canada has regularly Points at them services of consultants yeas various travaux . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
the foreign people that he congédie ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
health human fell cause is - she at the number of them consultants , I cannot saurais the confirm . 
if she is employée at what title , I am certain that the government receives the bons services fell contrepartie of health remuneration consentie . 
the senator Kelleher : 
honourable senators , I puis garantir at the Leader of the government at the Senate queM. John Weekes is very compétent . 
bye Act end of the month , the Canada and 130 other countries apply réuniront at Seattle yeas lancer Act next series of negotiations on the OMC . 
commentator these negotiations palatable wheel of grandes repercussions Act the Canada , he is important that foreign Canadians aient fully confidence streets Act management of these negotiations at Geneva . 
bye the name of health transparency and yeas dispel blunt uncertainty at the topic of the market - APCO before Act meeting of the OMC at Seattle , the Leader of the government déposera he the contract and Oceans documents connexes , there including ceux who concernent the Appeal of offres and the attribution of the market ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
he is chargé of the file and I cannot prétends not him enlever unabated responsibility . 
i vais him transmettre Act request for the senator , who wants obtain the most amples details Act what contract . 
transport finances 
health dévaluation of the dollar - Ex influence Act the achat of compagnies Forces by the foreign interests étrangers 
the Honourable GerrySt. Germain : 
he rereads has strokes a tollé subsequently at Act sale of MacMillan Bloedel , company canadienne établie of attest date , at Weyerhaeuser , grandfather conglomérat validate who has profité of what that a grandfather number of between us jugent perhaps series way épouvantable of health share of the government ' gérer our system fiscal and Monetary fell laissant the dollar Heritage perhaps also dévalué that he the is at the hour actuelle . 
what morning , I ai fact the trajet since Toronto with a jeune man who has always been a Liberal , but who is everything at fact dégoûté of see toutes these businesses perhaps achetées by the foreign Americans and the other , virtually at half price . 
the minister has he ' Affairs observations at formuler relatively at the fact that these grandes compagnies Forces apply Cutbacks absorber by the foreign companies Foreign ? 
i cannot dis not that he tangibly retourner at Act terrible Agency of sober of the investment abroad implementation Act foot by the government Liberal deM. Trudeau , but I think that he rereads has a problem when til loses of grandes compagnies commentator MacMillan Bloedel . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , business observations of the Honourable Senator me intéressent vivement . 
the blunt évidence , health value of our monnaie crée series dynamic economic who may entraîner various consequences or various events , according them circumstances . 
i am surprised to learn that , fell General , business representatives of the sector of them resources Natural apply opposent at Act faiblesse of the dollar Heritage . 
i aurais cru that , streets well - Provincial case , confirms their offrirait a advantage extraordinary when complements the time to sell their products everywhere streets the world . 
i cannot am not spécialiste of the industry to the lumber of sciage , but I know that , streets of nombreuses branches of the sector of them resources Natural , health faiblesse of the dollar Heritage has offert of grands benefits at our producers , what who has same contributed at create the foreign jobs and at stimulate the activité economic . 
health faiblesse of the dollar Heritage has therefore strokes , the Government less at some égards , the foreign repercussions positives Act the sector of them resources Natural . 
what that he tangibly retenir , by against , what is that royal faiblesse of the dollar rend the acquisition of companies Forces very attrayante at ceux who détiennent of them $ trillion and who trouveraient of telles acquisitions more intéressantes that otherwise . 
he not tangibly mostly not forget that our monnaie is flottante and that she trouve she - even his own level . 
what arranged of elsewhere always the case , at least that we cannot soyons loans at réviser fell depth Act policy of health Bank of the Canada . 
fell what who pertains them acquisitions by the foreign interests étrangers , he existe can - perhaps the other solutions that the Agency of sober of the investment abroad . 
the Honourable Senator fell has can - perhaps even certaines at us propose . 
the Germain Germain : 
honourable senators , the Leader parle of health faiblesse of the dollar Heritage and the Government sector primaire . 
what is really series fausse economy car , streets some cases , confirms we took conduits at devenir less compétitifs . 
confirms has conduit at these terribles quotas inacceptables Act the lumber of implementation , who acclaimed constitué a exodus cauchemar . 
confirms has restreint the development of blunt industry streets series province , car without quota , til not can ouvrir series scierie . 
confirms entraîne series series of problems at what topic . 
what is really horrible . 
honourable senators , I believe that , streets the framework of solutions at court term , the government has maintenu them rate of interest at a level too bas and what is what who has conduit at Act dévaluation of what dollar flottant . 
fell activist that particuliers , our richesse by report at the rest of the world has been réduite . 
bye the airport Heathrow , he fell coûte 15 books yeas a petit - déjeuner , what who represents , except mistake , 45 Expenditures Airports approximately . 
confirms mine completely our ability to demeurer compétitifs individuellement Act the market Whalers . 
the senator Taylor : 
what estM. Mulroney who has began everything confirms . 
the Germain Germain : 
Écoutez , you prostituted strokes your chance . 
you deviez you débarrasser of health GST and the toutes these other measures and you not fell prostituted nothing fact , dear . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I the dis humblement , I cannot am not to agree with mon hon. colleague Act a certain number of points . 
the Germain Germain : 
i hope that what is the case . 
the senator Boudreau : 
certaines of these divergences touchent same health monnaie . 
yeas ma share , I cannot am not fell favour of dictatorship . 
when til is against a rate of loses fixed and the maintien artificiel of the dollar Heritage at a level more élevé by report at the dollar validate , he tangibly Robbie create the foreign conditions who submariners amener the accroissement of health value of our dollar . 
i query that the Honourable Senator sache that I am favorable at a rate of loses flottant . 
i trouve that what is a bon moyen of corriger Act situation yeas them two grandes economies , business States - U.S. and the Canada , who arresting analyzed apply ajuster the genus at the another . 
i rest fell favour of a rate of loses flottant and , dois - I add , I cannot arrive not at me decide at prôner series hausse of them rate of interest . 
i cannot dispel not perhaps the agreement with the Honourable Senator , who is the notice that what is bon yeas the country of hausser them rate of interest . 
i cannot dispel everything simply not the admettre . 
well - Provincial people of the industry to them resources Natural with lesquels I me am entretenu acclaimed tiré party to a dollar Heritage low . 
however , with a rate of loses flottant , the dollar Heritage finit by find the level which is the sien . 
bye less than we cannot soyons loans at adopt a certain number of measures draconiennes , a rate of loses infertility or series hausse of them rate of interest by example , the dollar Heritage continuera of find his own level . 
i cannot serai not loan at me prononcer fell favour of rate of interest notablement more élevés . 
i cannot know not if them senators ' fell opposite there are favorables , but I cannot believe not that our party there authorized favorable . 
answers delayed at the foreign questions Oral 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I ai Act response différée at series question that the Honourable Senator Lowell Murray has posée the 13 October 1999 at the Senate at the topic of health responsibility to health décontamination of them sites of déchets toxiqueS , fell Nova Scotia Nova analyzed that series response at series question that the Honourable Senator Donald Oliver has posée at the Senate Committee 13 October 1999 at the topic of the funding for the nettoyage of them dégâts causés by foreign inondations streets the comté of Cumberland . 
the Environment 
health Nova Scotia Nova Scotia Position responsibility to health décontamination of them sites of déchets toxiques 
( response at Act question posée by the Honourable Lowell Murray : 13 October 1999 ) 
health privatization next of health Corporation - development of the Cape - Cape ( SDCB ) has soulevé of them composition regarding health réhabilitation of them propriétés héritées or acquises by Act Corporation since dapper creation fell 1967 . 
commentator indiqué streets them Debates of the Senate to the 13 October last , health responsibility and Oceans travaux liés at Act dépollution of them sites miniers actuels and abandonnés of health SDCB incombent at unabated dernière . 
the elsewhere , streets his report annual ( visant Act period which apply termine the 31 March 1999 ) , health SDCB has done dapper meilleure estimation of the cost prévu of them questions environnementales ( démolition of vessels , nettoyage , travaux of terrassement , treatment of them waters and other travaux of réhabilitation ) . 
the afternoon Act meilleure estimation of health direction of the cost yeas apply conformer at them requirements of them laws and regulations pertinents , and series assessment fournie by Act firme of engineers - advice Senes , the cost prévu of réparation of them dommages causés at the Environment apply élevaient at 110 million for $ . 
environment Canada prodigue of them advice techniques and scientific at Act SDCB Act them questions présentes and futures liées at them activities of dépollution of unabated dernière , the objective étant of veiller at what that these activities répondent at them requirements of them laws and regulations Act Act protection of the Environment . 
health defence national 
health Nova Scotia Nova Scotia Position responsibility to the nettoyage of them dégâts causés by foreign inondations streets the comté of Cumberland 
( response at Act question posée by the honorableDonald H . Oliver : 13 October 1999 ) 
the government ' health Nova Scotia Nova is fell train of évaluer them dommages at the infrastructure Public causés by Act ice . 
transport authorities Provincial are conscientes of health Availability of the soutien financier federal , fell vertu of them Accords of assistance financière fell case of catastrophe ( Accords AFC ) , and thin familiar them criteria of admissibilité . 
transport travaux of the Senate 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I believe that we awakened need to clarifications yeas savoir who are them senators auxquels , fell vertu of the rules , we pouvons poser of them questions during Act period of them questions . 
i ai the impression that foreign questions arresting perhaps adressées at them chairmen of them various committees and at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
i believe well that royal first question who has been posée today today apply adressait at the Leader Deputy of the government at the Senate . 
if I avais su that what guardian conforme at the rules , the senator Carstairs and moi - even aurions strokes much more of échanges that we cannot fell awakened eus at the surveillance of health dernière session . 
he serait useful that til we précise if the Leader Deputy of the government is the one of them senators at which the foreign questions arresting perhaps adressées during Act period of them questions . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
fell the absence of the Leader of the government at the Senate , the Leader Deputy has the habitude of respond at them questions streets Act measure where he the can . 
however , when the Leader of the government is présent , business questions repositories him perhaps adressées . 
orders OF THE 
the speech of the Trône 
motion of Adopted of the adresse fell response - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Kroft , seconded by the Honourable Senator Furey , Refer at the adoption of series Adresse at His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale fell response at the speech that Elle has prononcé lors of the opening of health second session of health trente - sixth législature . - ( 
the Honourable Marie - P . 
he rereads has well long that til we Partnerships presented a speech also éclatant of optimism relatively at Act possibility of capitaliser Act the enormous potentiel of our country plein of richesses . 
with Act end of the millennium are apparus of them opposants , the foreign adeptes of cultes and the foreign prophètes of malheur with their chapelet of prédictions and the exhortations déprimantes regarding health end of the century . 
they not Cutbacks not the poids opposite at the effervescence and at Act vigueur that ressentent ceux and celles who appuient the government . 
we analyzed portés by foreign accomplishments of the Canada at the surveillance of the XXe century and we crux with confidence and exaltation them challenges that présentent the next century and the nouveau millennium . 
honourable senators , the speech of the Trône has rose the ton at Act way whose we allons amorcer Act nouvelle ère . 
we cannot crux not the future budgets yeux fermés and we cannot impotent not ancrés streets the past . 
we reconnaissons that certaines mistakes acclaimed been commises , but thin acclaimed been completely éclipsées by our accomplishments . 
we awakened tiré of them lessons of our mistakes and we atteindrons of nouveaux sommets . 
but we pouvons influencer the Evolution by the effort , by Act conviction , by Act determination , by our courage , by our work , by our Innovation , by our creativity , by our motivator and mostly fell établissant them paramètres yeas croître fell partnership with the other governments , fell partnership with the sector private and mostly fell donnant the example . 
honourable senators , we pouvons achieve the foreign sommets inimaginables streets the field of them Arts and the foreign Science , the Day research and the Government development , the foreign progress Cultural , the Day promotion of health growth personnelle and mostly of health promotion of health peace and health good volonté at the country . 
the Canada , condolences friends , is the meilleur place where vivre . 
thanks at series good planning of health share of the government Present and at them sacrifices of all levels Canadians , we awakened succeeded at vaincre the fléau of health debt . 
he not apply notional not to series vision vague and éphémère ; she apply supports Act to them values concrete and practices . 
honourable senators , the speech of the Trône and Oceans remarques who acclaimed been formulées by Act subsequently by the Prime Minister acclaimed licences of établir a framework of Action realistic . 
the process is already fell surveillance and we comptons well construire unabated vision pierre by pierre , a morceau at Act once . 
honourable senators , mon grandfather - father guardian menuisier streets the north of the Ontario , at Sudbury . 
we awakened learned commentator child and petit - child that yeas grandir , he tangibly that our maison authorized bâtie Act series foundation damned , sécuritaire , profonde . 
what is what that our government we took offert since six years and what is what that our government paving continue at make , car we awakened well including the speech of the Trône . 
honourable senators , everything confirms richly Act the Return of health health fiscale , the Elimination of the deficit paralysant and series attack directe of health debt accumulée . 
our economy is fell pleine growth . 
the rate unemployment is low , the inflation also , business exports 1.2 , business taxes commencent at baisser and Oceans salaires 1.2 . 
what is series pierre very importante , health pierre angulaire of the commitment to the government Present opposite at the établissement of a Canada fort where could coexister the opportunité and health compassion , where Act confidence fell se and health dignity humaine not petitioners not sacrifiées Act the autel of health richesse and the Government ambition . 
health strategy visant at tribute possible unabated vision commence at fair title with our children . 
i vais énumérer them measures that the government has already mises fell implementation : the Program of nutrition prénatale ; the Program of assistance préscolaire at them aboriginal ; Act Subvention canadienne yeas the épargne - studies ; the foreign déductions accrues yeas fees of Custody of children ; Act Prestation national yeas children at the intent of them families at low and at moyen incomes ; and health non - Imposition of them versements yeas the soutien of a child . 
til announcement fell outre of them congés of maternité and parentaux more longs , the foreign ententes fédérales - Provincial Act a soutien accru yeas the development of them children fell bas age , the foreign allégements fiscaux who laisseront more of money between them mains of them families , the foreign conditions of work which tiennent account the foreign needs of them families , health reform of the right to health family , a investment important streets Act Prestation national yeas children and the meilleures opportunities for learning thanks at the expansion of the program Rescol . 
honourable senators , I am heureuse of constater that the enthusiasm and Oceans skills technological of them young Canadians uncovered utilisés at the foreign purposes utiles who their permettront of apply serve the their talents and the acquérir series experience at the level attain and international . 
i me bornerai at appoint four initiatives at bearer regard : premièrement , Échanges Canada , who fournira annuellement at a million for young Canadians Act chance to And streets series another region of the country ; deuxièmement , the embauche of dizaines of thousands of young volunteers Airports streets of them bills communautaires and the foreign bills environnementaux nationaux , and also afin of help to other persons at improve their capacités of reading and the écriture ; troisièmement , health possibility yeas them young Canadians to allegiances at profit their energy and their talents at the abroad , streets the framework of programs of stages internationaux , notamment fell aidant of them country fell development at apply brancher Act the Internet ; and quatrièmement , the embauche of young Canadians yeas help them communities rural and urbaines at allegiances Act foot of them sites Internet yeas the public . 
streets the but the appuyer the sector of the education , the government has announced and at already overburdened fell place Act Foundation canadienne of them scholarships to the millennium , whose business per 40,000 premiers $ uncovered attribués fell January ; Act Subvention canadienne yeas the épargne - studies , health déduction of them interests payés Act them loans students , and the utilisation of them RRSPs at them purposes of Training . 
the blunt évidence , health concrétisation of our vision is well amorcée . 
she comprend of them commitments loyalty our environment , health promotion of them échanges trading , business investment , health research and the development , the entrepreneuriat and Oceans partnerships . 
what is the leadership which suscite the enthusiasm and the optimism , who we pousse at agir , who we done avancer , who we stimule and who we encourage at us adapt at the foreign ideas and the foreign technologies nouvelles . 
honourable senators , I ai spoke of health pierre angulaire of health vision , our children and our young . 
i ai spoke of our responsibilities Projections , the Government obligation to protect the Environment , analyzed that the Day necessity of préserver them programs Cultural . 
everyone confirms is menacé if we cannot générons not a climate favorable at the milieu of them Affairs and streets lequel them businesses , small and grandes , arresting prospérer . 
without investment , without entrepreneurs , without them connaissances nécessaires streets series economy axée Act the savoir , we risquons of losing Act Position enviée whose we occupons streets the world . 
we awakened much at losing : series community of communities culturelles diversifiées , prospères , compatissantes and attentionnées who faces étend of a océan at the another . 
what is Act reason yeas laquelle I am contente that the speech of the Trône , that the Prime Minister has more later repris and étoffé , ait also porté Act the trade and based them investment . 
i ai commitments plaisir at hear that , yeas garder and attirer them meilleurs and Oceans more brilliant of our fellow , we devons make Evidence of a wit of imagination novateur . 
health collaboration between them governments , business universities , business établissements of research and the sector private is essential if we voulons demeurer at the prior - Custody of health competition World . 
he is therefore approprié that the government apply move the accroître the soutien at Act research by the intermédiaire of our various agencies subventionnaires whose the Council of research medical , the Council of recherches fell Science Resources and the Council of recherches fell Science Natural and fell génie . 
health proposal of create streets everything the Canada 2 40,000 nouvelles chaires of excellence fell research is series initiative before - gardiste , everything commentator of elsewhere the bill to create the Institute Heritage of research fell health . 
streets Act response to the Prime Minister at the speech of the Trône , he rereads has a passage who résume fort well them efforts of the government yeas promote Act research . 
he vaut Act peine of Welfare répété : 
honourable senators , fell présentant series strategy which intègre the economy , health policy social and the Environment , the government recognizes also that , also well intentionnés that soient ses orientations and ses programs , they not arresting perhaps efficaces without the sector private . 
what is the sector private who is the drives of the economy . 
the government can offer them outils , but what are them décideurs of them businesses which Cutbacks fonctionner Act machine and who produisent them biens and services which repositories perhaps vendus here and at the abroad . 
we awakened all heard parler of the prétendu exodus of them cerveaux . 
fell présentant dapper vision of the future , the government has réuni them conditions gagnantes yeas garder and attirer them meilleurs researchers , business meilleurs innovateurs , business meilleurs producers and Oceans meilleurs commercialistes at the world . 
commentator they viennent of toutes them regions of the globe , who the another could better we help at make competition at them country étrangers ? 
commentator I ai chaired a subamendment - Committee who has presented ses findings at the Senate fell June , I am convaincue that the Canada is fell measure of soutenir Act competition streets them sectors fell evolution of the ordinatique . 
bearer objective , that the Prime Minister has guest the sector private at achieve , represents a enjeu of 200 billion to $ yeas them businesses . 
we awakened series vision of the Canada . 
unabated vision is celle of series society modern , who faces is bâtie thanks at the sharing the experiences and the values , the genus society who is issue of series determination at triompher against foreign embûches , at viser the excellence , the genus society who fact the envy of them other . 
honourable senators , voilà what that is the Canada , our Canada , gerrymandering of today today and the tomorrow . 
the Honourable Erminie J . Cohen : 
honourable senators , the speech of the Trône exposait the program of the government yeas the nouveau millennium and we présentait a plan and series list of priorities who révèlent that foreign children uncovered at the prior - scène streets them Budgets at venir . 
we verrons , between other , a whole of programs raisonnables yeas them children , series hausse of them Estimates and the foreign benefits accorded at them families poor and at their children , a congé of maternité payé , the foreign housing yeas them without - abri and a Program of Action attain yeas them children . 
voilà of them reasons valables and sensées yeas the government ' engager of them Estimates during that he enregistre a surplus . 
fell fact , what are the foreign objectives louables . 
however , damned is Act date target ? 
quels programs are envisagés yeas allegiances end at Act poverty of them children and when aurons - we fell place series strategy national ? 
well that foreign Canadians rose including health necessity of augmenter them Estimates at the subheading of them programs Cultural aient apprécié the speech of the Trône , they acclaimed néanmoins been déçus that the government ait négligé of propose an plan to Action yeas help them more démunis . 
that comptons - we make yeas atténuer them difficulties of them Canadians who acclaimed been Woodlot of their rights ? 
health lutte against Act poverty at the Canada proceeded by Act perseverance , the determination , the commitment , health compassion and Oceans actions concrete . 
hélas , the 12 October last , the government not we took served that series list of priorities . 
he tangibly that foreign Canadians and Oceans Canadiennes of tomorrow puissent say , fell considérant the présent Parliament , that he remembered composait of men and the women déterminés at bâtir a Canada more fort and series meilleure quality of life yeas their children and their grandchildren - child . 
fell ma quality of coprésident of the group of work of the Party Progressive - Conservative Act Act poverty , I me am entretenue with much of individus and the défenseurs of them poor of a bout at the another of the country . 
their témoignage dénonce the burden enormous of health poverty , also well yeas them individus that yeas Act society . 
much of persons acclaimed indiqué that foreign programs of lutte against Act poverty not feront not that improve Act situation of them gagne - petit of today today , but they renforceront also them perspectives socioéconomiques futures of the Canada . 
what are là two elements indissociables , honourable senators . 
series good politics economic entraîne forcément series good politics social . 
the genus not paving not fault the another . 
he not is not indispensable of remind at them senators that royal poverty at the Canada has atteint of them proportions catastrophiques . 
no we parle til not fault relâche of them million for grandchildren Canadians who vivent Subcommittee on doorstep of health poverty ? 
the Winter étant soon at our doors , business families are the most fell more nombreuses at duty apply atteler at Act painful task of rechercher a housing . 
the speech of the Trône not has 3.26 that series half - line at them without - abri . 
by contraste , the 26 October , the quotidien Ottawa Citizen has released a section inspiré Act Catherine Luxton , series fillette de10 years who has commitments conscience of health nouvelle ampleur of the problem of the itinérance . 
she has decided , with the assistance to his father , the make something something yeas help them nécessiteux . 
transport Luxton apply are fixé a goal . 
he submariners recueillir of them fund yeas purchase 50 40,000 repas chauds at distribute at them without - abri of health region of Ottawa . 
commentator he is réconfortant of see series jeune daughter reconnaître a need pressant streets our society and decide to make something something immediately yeas remédier at Act situation . 
why the government prend - he if long before the fell make autant ? 
the foreign thousands of Canadians vivent streets them parks , Subcommittee them bridges , streets them rues . 
what are them citizens oubliés of our society . 
the problem of them without - abri is a problem réel and grave auquel too of Canadians are confrontés today today ; what is a problem whose I espérais that the government traite longuement streets the speech of the Trône . 
mother Teresa we took overburdened fell Custody when she has said : 
we serons jugés , you and moi , fell function of what that we cynicism yeas them poor . 
now that the budget is excédentaire , I hope that the government fell profitera yeas apply attaquer seriously at the problem pressant and urgent of health poverty at the Canada before that vienne yeas him the hour of the judgment last . 
health vision exposée streets the speech of the Trône has énoncé the orientation that the government entend prendre streets the year who complements . 
i brevity the government ' wheel strokes Act prévoyance of reconnaître that a investment streets them premières years of our children is a investment streets the future of our country . 
however , yeas rompre the cycle of health poverty , he tangibly give at all levels children at the Canada series chance attainment of réaliser everything their potentiel . 
he is triste of constater that they not fell acclaimed not Act possibility today today . 
if we pouvions remédier with success at them conditions payroll who perpétuent Act poverty familiale , honourable senators , we pourrions élever series nouvelle generation of children - Request them children whose business needs essentiels are comblés yeas that they puissent devenir of them members of health society canadienne fell good health , autonomes and instruits . 
the Prime Minister has said : 
we devons mood also quickly that possible for them paroles at them mood . 
these mots not veulent nothing say , account tenu of the fact that fell 1989 , series resolution visant at éliminer Act poverty chez them children before the 2000 2000 has been adoptée by all levels parties at the another place . 
honourable senators , ten years acclaimed past and he is pourtant scandaleux of constater that the government has done well little yeas nourrir them grandchildren Canadians , whose a Act five has the ventre creux . 
bye measure that royal poverty apply répand at the Canada , unabated promise fell the air of the government laisse less of espoir . 
the government has promised to nouveaux investment streets Act Prestation national yeas children , but puisque he rereads has a surplus today today , why attend - he at tomorrow yeas prendre of them measures ? 
when he has rencontré them poor everywhere at the Canada , the group of work Act Act poverty of the caucus attain of the Party Progressive - Conservative has often and clearly heard say that the time is venu yeas the government federal - réindexer Act Prestation national yeas children at the rate of inflation . 
bye the surveillance of health dernière session , the Member Progressive - Conservative of Shefford , at the Quebec , has presented series motion of the same kind at the another place . 
the government Liberal has révélé that he entendait consacrer a 1.1 of $ yeas étendre the congé of maternité and the porter of six months at a 2000 . 
i me réjouis of unabated initiative and the Day prévoyance that has the government fell recognizing that he is important that foreign parents passent of the time with their children durant them premières years of Training . 
however , when til there regarde at two once , til apply request who at the fair bénéficiera of unabated subvention . 
account tenu of them changes survenus Act the market - Government work , he rereads has much of workers contractuels and autonomes . 
gold , these people cannot Cutbacks not part of the regime of insurance - employment . 
the most , unabated measure not done nothing yeas help ceux who are exclus of the market - Government work rémunéré . 
she never répond not at them needs of them women at low income who never pourront not bénéficier of a congé of maternité if their conjoint not gagne not to silver . 
that fell is - he ' s Opposition of series family monoparentale who never can compter that Act him ? same or she - even ? 
i believe power say that what not is not Act question of the congé of maternité who preoccupation them unemployed Airports , but unsuccessfully celle who BNA at find them afford to allegiances of the pain Act Act table . 
transport Nations overseeing acclaimed déclaré that the Canada guardian the meilleur country at the world yeas vivre . 
pourtant , 5.2 million for Canadians vivent Subcommittee on doorstep of health poverty . 
the 12 October last , business Canadians specialist need that til their revealing a plan présentant of them solutions concrete afin of éliminer Act poverty , the number of them without - abri and health necessity of wheel of them Banking of foods . 
unfortunately , they acclaimed heard from waves promises which petitioners réalisées streets a giveaway approximatif . 
bye the aube of the XXIe century , I implore the government ' adopt series Position courageuse and audacieuse , the make a effort concerté and the run engager at hausser the level of life afin of make the Day vision exposée streets the speech of the Trône series reality yeas them démunis . 
i the implore of reduce the gap between them riches and Oceans poor , the majorer Act Benefit fiscale yeas child , the hausser the doorstep of assujettissement at the tax , the réindexer the tax Act the Income of them particuliers yeas protect them gains of the inflation and the improve the program of insurance - employment yeas that all ceux who fell acclaimed need reçoivent of them prestations , what who réduirait the insécurité financière of them Canadians at them prises with the nouveau market - Government work . 
the government has yeas duty to ensure a level of life décent at all ses citizens . 
Tagore , a poète indien , has written : 
i ai dormi and I ai rêvé that royal life guardian joie , Je me am réveillé and I ai seen that royal life guardian duty , Je ai acted and I ai trouvé that the duty guardian joie , Je souhaite at the government ' connaître Act joie ! 
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau : 
honourable senators , at the topic of health decision blunt récente of health Court Supreme of the Canada , the 17 September 1999 , five judges of health Court Supreme of the Canada , fell Appeal of health Court of Appeal of Nova Scotia Nova , laughed décrété that fell vertu of Rights issus of treaties which acclaimed been signésle 10 March 1760 , Donald Marshall not guardian not tenu of apply conformer at Act regulatory Act them fisheries . 
i query attirer your attention Act to them considérations and a context historic who never acclaimed not been commitments fell considération by Act Court Supreme and who montrent that the treaty of 1760 not is not valide . 
fell consequential , health cour should revert Act dapper decision . 
permettez - moi of citer a extrait mémorable of what judgment . 
he not saurait ask less of the honour and the Day dignity of health crown streets ses reports with them First First . 
pareils feelings évoquent a héroïsme chevaleresque , the foreign images of braves officiers and the généreux officials . 
transport judges palatable can - perhaps ask that a monument fell memory of the gouverneur Lawrence , signataire of the document of 1760 , authorized érigé Act them pelouses appeared Act Court Supreme yeas that they not oublient never the poids of their decision . 
gold , five years at peine before the sign what document now immortalisé , the gouverneur Acting Lawrence signait , the 11 August 1755 , a another document donnant of them instructions at the Colonel John Winslow . 
yeas rassembler and embarquer them residents , you devrez wheel Points at them afford them more sûrs and , according them circumstances , you serve the Day ruse or the Day strength . 
i widow mostly that you teniez nil account the foreign supplications and the foreign petitions that you adresseront them residents , quels that soient ceux who désirent stay . 
a perhaps ignoble , gorgé of his autorité military , who , illégalement and the dapper own initiative and without Act leave of ses supérieurs , has rose the Order of arrêter , the détenir and the déporter 15 40,000 men , women and children , whose health half has péri durant Act déportation . 
what is the same man who has signed the treaty of 1760 . 
réfléchissons a little at the ampleur of health fault . 
the Order transgressait openly the article 29 of health Britain Charter of England . 
he enfreignait Act Pétition of Rights of 1628 . 
absolument nothing not allows the croire that foreign populations acadiennes remettaient fell question the regime britannique . 
fell supposant that some Acadians aient commis of them méfaits political , he not existait aucune bill britannique or another autorisant Act punition of their women and the their children . 
nothing , if what not is a Order of the Parliament , not pouvait chasser a topic britannique of his country , even apply he remembered agissait of a criminal . 
the treaty of Utrecht of 1713 , and the décret of health reine Anne du23 June 1713 , laughed élargi Act protection conférée by the treaty . 
they stipulent that foreign Acadians acclaimed of them rights Act their lands and that they not arresting perhaps expulsés at least the genus sentence rendue by a court . 
that a member of the executive , who guardian a simple Lieutenant - gouverneur , ait répudié series prerogative Royal contrevenait at the right britannique fondamental of the époque . 
fell 1729 , the gouverneur Richard Phillips Partnerships assuré them Acadians by wrote of dapper protection against pareilles actions . 
the Colonel Lawrence has acted without recevoir of ordres and has méprisé toutes them laws which protégeaient them Acadians . 
even the roi not Partnerships not the power to sign a Order of déportation , car them provisions of 1297 of health Britain Charter of England stipulent that the roi not is not au - dessus of health law , therefore still less a simple Lieutenant - gouverneur Acting . 
what personnage has done confisquer them biens of them Acadians , brûler their maisons and their champs , abattre their bêtes . 
he has séparé of them families that he has embarquées Act to them ships fragiles yeas perhaps vendues commentator esclaves or condamnées at Act servitude streets them colonies américaines . 
rappelons that unabated déportation criminelle and these camps of concentration étaient entamés when the treaty of 1760 has been signed and prolongé until fell 1763 . 
transport savants judges we informent that they présument that Lawrence has acted honorablement fell préparant what treaty of 1760 . 
voilà them agissements of a bureaucrate catalyst whose the duty professionnel guardian of protect them Acadians . 
the foreign agissements who prouvent that he not Partnerships nil respect anguishes yeas them treaties anguishes yeas Act couronne britannique . 
the foreign decisions commentator celles - là acclaimed always been inacceptables , that what authorized fell time to peace or the war . 
Lawrence has posé of them gestes barbares and inacceptables , even at the aune of them standards of the XVIIIe century . 
the foreign gestes commentator ceux - là étaient inadmissibles streets the past and they the are everything autant today today . 
a criminal not should not wheel the right to create the foreign laws fondamentales streets series society civilisée . 
his geste reprehensible the has private of everyone right légal and moral of sign not regardless breaching document auquel til apply réfère today today yeas guider our civilization modern . 
fell fondant our laws Act series référence at Lawrence , til apply moque of health memory of our braves Canadians and Canadiennes , the our martyrs who acclaimed combattu and versé their blood yeas that cessent them comportements meurtriers of people commentator Lawrence . 
they acclaimed versé their blood yeas that the foreign tyrans of unabated espèce not règnent not based we and not fassent not Act bill referred Act sunrise of their fusil . 
and voilà that at the aube of the nouveau millennium , we allons immortaliser officially the héritage of Lawrence streets them recueils of the court Supreme of the country . 
breaching blasphème of health memory of our martyrs and the our ancêtres acadiens , business premiers Europeans at apply établir at the Canada ! 
we laissons a terrible héritage at them generations montantes . 
certaines persons diront that I fell veux at Act couronne britannique . 
they apply trompent , I fell veux at them agissements of a psychotique abusif , the one bureaucrate écoeurant . 
i think that royal plupart of them Acadians pensent commentator moi and that what patient mental at lier agissait of his own chief . 
we savons all that Lawrence not is not the Prime bureaucrate of the history at abuser of his autorité and at recourir at the foreign mood of conspiration , the violence and the terrorism . 
unfortunately , he not arranged not the last non more . 
i invite them judges at réfléchir at them implications of their raisonnement . 
if the snakes accepte Act validité of the document of 1760 , til guess that he has exécuté ses duties générales and ordinaires with the Authorized to health couronne and the Government Inuvialuit britanniques . 
he remembered ensuit that he Partnerships of them motifs of déporter them Acadians and that he has fidèlement obéi at them volontés of health couronne . 
fell recognizing the power légal of Lawrence of sign the foreign documents legal at the name of health couronne , health Court Supreme recognizes Act validité of the Order of déportation . 
during the foreign centuries , health couronne has balayé unabated illégalité Subcommittee on tapis . 
what is perhaps - perhaps yeas confirms that the Order of déportation not has never been retiré and that everyone the world can fell prendre knowledge . 
what is perhaps - perhaps yeas confirms that foreign Acadians acclaimed been expressément exclus of the treaty of Paris of 1763 , and that what bannissement illégal is always streets them books . 
the cancellation of the Order could impliquer that the acte has been solemn posé . 
the démenti of atrocities has series attest history . 
he is well possible that he rereads ait strokes of them abus commis by the foreign bureaucrats britanniques at the surveillance of health attest history of health colonisation , but never intentionnellement of unabated ampleur . 
i cannot believe not that royal couronne ait never accepted them mood cruels infligés at them Acadians . 
fell fact , I query you lire series letter that I ai envoyée at the consul General of health Britain - Britain at Houston , the 18 October 1994 , who démontre that what not is not a topic that I raises yeas Act first once today today . 
i vais you lire unabated letter telle that I the ai écrite : 
i ai suivi of close them développements relatifs at Act petition deM. Warren Perrin regarding the expulsion , fell 1755 , the foreign Acadians of health Nova Scotia Nova . 
Koppel . Perrin request modestement réparation yeas Act grande tragedy that acclaimed connue them Acadians . 
what étaient of them subjects britanniques who specialist right at Act protection of the state . 
the treaty of Utrecht of 1713 has yielding the Acadie at Act Britain - Britain . 
health community acadienne guardian well établie fell Nova Scotia Nova since most of a century when bearer acte infâme has been commis . 
unfortunately , the government britannique not has never recognized the illégalité of the expulsion menée fell his name by ses representatives coloniaux , whose health principale responsibility guardian of protect them subjects and Oceans biens britanniques . 
the time which has past not enlève nothing at Act gravité of bearer acte . 
health perpétration of bearer acte entache terriblement the history of health democracy of health Britain - Britain , whose unabated dernière is whether fière . 
i am certain that royal majority of them Britanniques approuveraient the principle universel that he not existe not to giveaway of prescription yeas them crimes against the humanity , particularly when business agents of the state commettent of them crimes loyalty them subjects of their countries ... 
fell activist that parliamentary , I am conscient of the importance of reconnaître them mistakes of the past the way at what that thin not apply reproduisent never . 
the expulsion of them Acadians has been a acte barbare who has commitments to them proportions énormes . 
Ça has been a nettoyage ethnic scandaleux and criminal ... 
the government britannique has here the opportunity to make at them persons of the world entier series statement constructive at the échelle Universal . 
the nettoyage ethnic , the genocide and health violence loyalty them citizens of a country are inacceptables . 
he remembered can that confirms particulars of them centuries , but Act justice the emportera always . 
some diront that I cannot sympathise not opposite at them problems vécus by foreign Canadians aboriginal . 
bye the contrary , business Acadians and Oceans aboriginal acclaimed been the foreign friends blocks the beginning of them colonies . 
they acclaimed lived and worked together streets the harmonie and much of between eux apply mariaient them uns at them other . 
durant Act déportation , the history indique that foreign aboriginal are flocked at the secours of them refugees acadiens fell courant of grands risks . 
i cannot ai aucune ranc9ur at the place to them seuls allies of condolences ancêtres . 
a grandfather number of Aboriginal are also victims of them mood of intimidation of Lawrence . 
fell 1756 , Lawrence commanda that the foreign hostilities soient commises loyalty them Indiens , offrant of the money comptant yeas of them prisoners or the foreign " scalps " : men , women and children . 
they étaient at the courant of them méthodes of épuration ethnic employées by Lawrence against foreign Acadians . 
they acclaimed seen the first main what that Lawrence réservait at ceux who osaient the contrarier . 
transport judges of health Court Supreme not pouvaient surely not conceive that a bureaucrate serait if little civilized . 
streets a world civilized , a bureaucrate respectueux of health law aurait avoided accomplir what that foreign judges voulaient lire streets the document , but he not fell guardian not analyzed of Lawrence . 
the intent of them judges guardian commendable , but evil placée . 
transport judges not repositories not penser that the Parliament is incapable of adhere them citizens . 
health democracy is a trésor gagné of upper lutte and she deserves Act chance to perhaps appliquée . 
transport judges devraient penser at help at the instead of prendre of them decisions who suscitent of them ressentiments , the foreign insultes and the foreign bouleversements . 
they not acclaimed not réfléchi at them consequences that their interpretation fingertips streets our villages inshore and based on exploitation of our resources limitées of health sea and the Day earth . 
the judgment of health Court Supreme has already divisé of them populations who acclaimed always lived streets the harmonie and the respect mutuels . 
without pilote , health colère , health jealousy , health cupidité and the racism are the foreign forces terriblement puissantes at libérer . 
much of questions are posées but we recevons little of responses . 
transport lawyers repositories already happening frotter them mains of satisfaction . 
Lawrence aurait of whereupon perhaps proud . 
the but the mon intervention today today not is not to me apitoyer Act them malheurs of the past . 
confirms aurait yeas effect of create series mentalité of victim who engendrerait of them feelings of infériorité , the acrimonie and the indifference . 
the another share , confirms not ressemble not at Act mentalité of them Acadians , well at the contrary . 
you direz can - perhaps that he is time that foreign Acadians , some the mentionnent , pardonnent . 
pardonner , yes , what is Act something at make . 
forget ? 
never . 
ceux who oublient are condamnés at repeat them mistakes of the past . 
health community international commence everything fair at discuss the Day possibility of create series cour criminelle international permanente yeas traduire fell justice them persons guilty of crimes against the humanity . 
i you quote a extrait of the speech that the Honourable Lloyd Axworthy has prononcé at them Nations overseeing , the 24 September 1999 , who shows clearly that we répétons them mistakes of the past , and I quote : 
he we tangibly absolument create the foreign mechanisms yeas that foreign persons who contreviennent at them laws internationales soient tenues responsables of their mood . 
he tangibly briser Act culture of the impunité . 
health possibility of Welfare poursuivies and the perhaps punies doit perhaps series reality yeas them persons who recourent at Act violence . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , the time which guardian alloué at the senator Comeau is elapsed . 
health leave is - she granted at the senator Comeau of pursue his intervention ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Comeau : 
a genocide culturel not apply oublie not and the agresseur not is never dignified of honour . 
the time nothing efface not the evil anguishes them agissements of Lawrence . 
he appartient at a group of monstres that we cannot devons never vénérer . 
he not tangibly never that his name authorized réhabilité . 
who serait the suivant ? 
no feront - they not valoir that royal réhabilitation of Lawrence ouvre Act door at their own réhabilitation ? 
i request therefore at Act Court Supreme of Extend the judgment Marshall fell attendant Act tenue of series inquiry fell good and due form Act Act validité of health Signing of Lawrence Act something document that what authorized . 
health law not exige she not to soutenir the honour and the integrity of health crown ? 
fell fact , business judges palatable apply référer at series petition yeas the institution of series inquiry , déposée by foreign Acadians fell 1760 . 
Notez well Act date of health petition ! 
unabated inquiry began rendu caduque blunt bill to prescription who could ceased . 
transport Acadians not deserve - they not to perhaps défendus or the perhaps jugés commentator of them guilty of the méfait who has entraîné their déportation by Lawrence ? 
if Lawrence has always acted streets his right and with Act bénédiction of health crown , the history arranged Robbie écrite . 
otherwise , Lawrence should perhaps condamné historiquement , commentator he the deserves . 
some submariners balayer of the revers of health main ma request for inquiry fell alléguant that what is a symbolisme non pertinent of series époque révolue . 
i their répondrai that he not there has not more symbolique that our attachement at Act crown , at Act Gouverneure générale and at them robes red of them judges of our Court Supreme . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Hays , at the name of the senator Finestone , the debate is adjourned . ) 
the Adresse fell response - Motion Refer at allegiances end at the debate on eighth day to postponement - Adjourned of the debate 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , pursuant at the notice of the 2,500 November 1999 , moved : 
that foreign deliberations at the Order of the day yeas Act resuming the Government debate Act Act motion Refer at the adoption of series Adresse fell response at the speech of the Trône , prononcé by His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale appeared them two Houses of the Parliament , run terminent the eighth day to postponement where the Order fingertips been débattu . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , fell essayant of understanding the why the unabated motion , I cannot ai avoided me prevent the penser that , if the government wants limiting - at eight , yeas perhaps precise - Government number of days of debate Act the speech of the Trône , what is that he has énormément of evil at there find matière yeas that foreign honourable senators participent at what debate . 
if what not is not Act reason , Robbie can - perhaps confirms tient - he at something else considération . 
voyons how apply déroulent our travaux . 
i admets that few senators acclaimed already commitments share at the debate , and Oceans interventions are limitées at 3:15 minutes chacune . 
four senators palatable therefore prendre Act parole each day . 
bye reason for two hours by day , what serait a maximum of eight senators . 
bye the pace of two hours by day , what that I cannot ai not seen since the beginning of health session , confirms ferait a total of 16 hours . 
according what scénario , only 32 senators palatable 209 what who doit perhaps , the Government standpoint of standpoint of the government , the grandfather bill global of health session . 
unless the Government tiers of them members of the Senate palatable therefore participate at the debate Act unabated grande vision that the government is censé wheel of them Affairs - Government Canada . 
honourable senators , he we tangibly try to see au - delà of unabated motion which underlies at limiting the debate . 
we devrions always we interroger seriously Act Act limitation of them debates damned that authorized Act question at the study . 
combien of once them senators ' s party ministériel imposent - they the attribution of time , who is a moyen of limiting the debate ? 
the Honourable John B . Stewart : 
transport speech are limités à15 minutes . 
no the oubliez not . 
the senator Kinsella : 
unabated limite prouve richly that he tangibly examiner them repercussions of health limite of eight days imposée yeas the debate fell response at the speech of the Trône . 
the senator Stewart apply souviendra without doubt the foreign paroles of the grandfather writer Joseph Joubert , who has said rejecting : 
he vaut better débattre of series question without Act régler that the Day régler without the wheel débattue . 
streets these documents , the foreign hauts placés of the milieu of them Affairs - Government Canada demandaient of aborder unabated question during the summer , during the congé Parliamentary , the manner at what that she never suscite not a important debate . 
i think that our democracy Parliamentary , at the Breast of a regime bicaméral who has résisté at the épreuve of the time and who is fell place since 131 years , has been series extraordinary Success , whereupon that fell disent some chefs of parties to the another place . 
til has exercé , with much of success , health freedom streets our country . 
i mets all ceux who fell doutent at the challenge of find streets the world series region , a country or a regime gouvernemental where Act freedom , health democracy and Oceans rights of health human acclaimed been autant respectés . 
honourable senators , I estimated that we devons résister at Act tentation of limiting the debate on someone way that what authorized , commentator til tente of the make now . 
by conséquent , I move , with the appui of the senator DeWare , that royal motion not authorized not adoptée now , but that she authorized modifiée by Act deleting the Government word " eight " and his replacement by the word " fourteenth " . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion of amendment to the senator Kinsella ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . ) 
the Code criminal 
bill to Bill Amend - Second Reading 
his Honour the Speaker : 
if nil another senator not wants prendre Act parole , êtes - you loans at adopt Act motion of second reading ? 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
before the continue , honourable senators , I voudrais ask at the senator Oliver on us inform davantage at the topic of the precedent and the Day justification of pareille practice . 
the senator can - he we inform davantage Act what that he has déterminé fell consultant the rules and based them precedents ? 
the senator Oliver : 
if the Senate consent at Act second reading , health issue arranged renvoyée at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Constitutional and Constitutional . 
i ai series motion which has been rédigée by the Bureau and who faces fonde Act the precedent établi at the Senate . 
yeas respond directly at Act question of the Leader Deputy , I pourrais can - perhaps lire Act motion yeas that he constate by him ? same health nature of the precedent établi . 
i vais therefore the make . 
by the Honourable Senator Oliver , supported by the Honourable Senator Di Nino , 
with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the alinéa 58 ( 1 ) f ) the Government Rules , 
that foreign documents reçus and Oceans testimony entendus by the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional at the surveillance of his study of the bill deloi S - 17 , Act amend the Code criminal relatively at the harassment criminal and at the other subjects connexes , lors of health first session of health trente - sixth législature , soient renvoyés at the committee yeas Act présente study of the projetde bill S - 6 . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
if nil another senator not wants prendre Act parole , puis - I mood at Act question regarding health second reading ? 
the Honourable Anne C . Cools : 
honourable senators , puis - I poser series question ? 
i me am absentée series minute and I voudrais reprendre the incorrigible . 
that is - what that the senator move at the fair ? 
he said that he donnera notice of series motion at bearer effect and that he Act proposera or impotent - we already saisis of health motion ? 
the senator Oliver : 
i cannot ai not proposed Act motion because that the bill to Bill not has not yet atteint the phase of health second reading . 
the senator Cools : 
the senator Oliver : 
he not apply notional not to the everything of a notice . 
i ai read Act motion by déférence yeas the senator Hays , who me has asked what that I avais fell tête . 
the senator Cools : 
perhaps - perhaps puis - I Robbie poser mon another question ? 
when the senator curb he ' we saisir officially of bearer notice ? 
the senator Oliver : 
series once that the bill to Bill rereads perhaps read series second once . 
the senator Cools : 
what not is not very clear . 
the senator wants - he say that he entend propose series motion at bearer effect after Act second reading ? 
the senator Oliver : 
what is exact . 
the senator Cools : 
what serait very interesting . 
i thank the senator . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
if nil another senator not wants prendre Act parole , puis - I mood at Act motion of second reading ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée and the bill to Bill is read series second once . ) 
referred at the committee - Adoption of health motion of amendment 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series third once ? 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
i move that the bill to Bill authorized renvoyé at the committee Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
the Honourable Anne C . Cools : 
he me seems that foreign committees uncovered constitués of here a or two days , not is - what not ? 
the senator Oliver : 
i veux modify ma motion fell ajoutant them mots " when ledit committee arranged formé , the case échéant " . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
is - til of agreement yeas that royal motion authorized modifiée ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
the Honourable Senator Oliver , supported by the Honourable Senator Di Nino , moved that the bill to Bill authorized renvoyé at the committee Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional , when ledit committee arranged formé , the case échéant . 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion modifiée ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion modifiée is adoptée . ) 
routine legal and Constitutional 
motion demandant the Authorized to utiliser them documents and testimony recueillis lors of the examination of the bill to Bill precedent yeas the study of the bill to Bill Present - Adjourned of the debate 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the alinéa 58 ( 1 ) f ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that foreign documents reçus and Oceans testimony entendus by the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional at the surveillance of his study of the projetde bill S - 17 , Act amend the Code criminal relatively at the harassment criminal and at the other subjects connexes , lors of health first session of health trente - sixth législature , soient renvoyés at the Comité yeas Act présente study of the projetde bill S - 6 . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave is - she granted ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the Honourable Anne C . Cools : 
honourable senators , if I comprends well , unabated motion can - perhaps débattue , not is - what not ? 
the senator Oliver : 
yes . 
the senator Cools : 
the senator Oliver could perhaps - perhaps lancer the debate afin that we comprenons well why he moved unabated motion . 
the senator Oliver : 
honourable senators , unabated motion is Proposed before everything yeas make épargner time and money at Act population of the Canada . 
much of witnesses acclaimed exprimé their opinion at the topic of a bill to Bill who is identique at gerrymandering whose we analyzed currently saisis . 
transport testimony acclaimed been transcrits . 
transport members of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional acclaimed interrogé all levels witnesses who acclaimed comparu appeared eux . 
bye the instead of réinviter all levels witnesses at subpoenas , whose some at them fees of the state , yeas réentendre their témoignage , what who paving consommer the time to the staff and the foreign senators , I hope that we allons power incorporer by referred them testimony who acclaimed been transcrits , résumés and widely diffusés yeas that we cannot ayons not at refaire the work . 
what is Act principale reason for unabated motion , honourable senators . 
the senator Cools : 
honourable senators , I believe understand that unabated motion sert at indiquer at a committee whereupon make . 
health proposal présente certaines difficulties because that the Senate not connaît not Act question that the Honourable Senator move étant rose that , if I ai well including , the committee not has never done report of the bill to Bill at the Senate . 
by conséquent , the Senate not has never been saisi of health issue . 
therefore , the Honourable Senator we request for give the foreign directives Act a topic whose we cannot awakened not commitments knowledge . 
confirms me pose a problem and I cannot know not too how procéder . 
if the Honourable Senator pouvait we apporter more of elements , I serais heureuse of them examiner . 
if what not is not the case , I am prête at ajourner the debate afin that we puissions wheel of the time yeas better we inform Act Act question . 
the senator Oliver : 
honourable senators , health motion not is not series directive yeas who that what authorized . 
what is series request adressée at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional . 
i c rois savoir that unabated procedure has been utilisée at the nombreuses occasions at the Senate afin of recueillir of them preuves Act ... 
the senator Cools : 
he we is difficult to débattre of series motion that we cannot awakened not appeared we . 
you we the prostituted lue , but confirms we aurait aidés of fell wheel series copy appeared we . 
i cannot know not very well - whereupon we parlons . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , puisque Act question not seems not make the unanimously , perhaps - perhaps the debate could - he perhaps adjourned and repris tomorrow ? 
the senator Oliver : 
i am conscient of the fact that the committee not has not yet been formé . 
ma motion not apply applies that if the committee is formé and when he the arranged . 
i cannot me attends not at what that royal question authorized transmise at the committee blocks tomorrow puisque he not existe not yet . 
however , I hope that she never arranged not remise indéfiniment . 
i hope that she rereads perhaps transmise at the committee before that his program not authorized chargé of measures legislatures Change who uncovered certainly prioritaires , afin that few witnesses additional puissent perhaps entendus if the committee ' Justice necessary . 
the senator Hays : 
honourable senators , I cannot ai not seen streets them observations of the senator Cools , the signe that which that what authorized to what side - ci or she - even souhaite retarder unduly the adoption of unabated motion . 
he me seems that royal motion is recevable , but the senator Cools has the foreign questions and I believe that she has the right that til them stares streets the framework of a debate Act Act motion . 
i believe understand that the senator Cools voudrait obtain series copy écrite of health motion . 
fell activist that Leader Deputy of the government , I dispel say at the Honourable Senator Oliver that we cannot awakened absolument not the intent of what side - ci of retarder unduly the adoption of health motion . 
the senator Cools : 
honourable senators , I serais heureuse of propose the adjournment of the debate . 
i cannot believe not that a adjournment causerait a retard quelconque , car them committees not acclaimed not yet been constitués . 
i am inquiète , car he rereads has a aspect inhabituel streets unabated motion and I think that the Senate should the examiner of way approfondie . 
if the Honourable Senator Oliver souhaite intervene at nouveau , I cannot ai nothing against , but I am heureuse of propose the adjournment of the debate , seconded by the senator Milne . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I traite these observations commentator of them questions at the senator Oliver , afin that we puissions adhere the rules . 
the senator Oliver : 
honourable senators , I am everything at fact of agreement with Act suggestion of the Honourable Senator Hays voulant that we ajournions the debate . 
that foreign documents reçus and Oceans testimony entendus by the committee sénatorial Standing of them Peoples aboriginal at the surveillance of his study of them bills of Bill S - 10 and S - 12 ( Act prévoyant the self self - Provincial First First of the Canada ) lors of health trente - fifth législature soient déférés at what committee yeas Act présente study of the bill to Bill S - 14 . 
health motion has been implementation at them Senators and adoptée . 
he rereads has much of precedents at what topic . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Cools , the debate is adjourned . ) 
transport consequences of the Union Monetary European 
Authorized at the committee of them Affairs Foreign of engager of the staff 
the Senate proceeded at the study of the second report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign ( budget - study regarding the Union Monetary European ) , presented at the Senate Committee 2 November 1999 . - ( Le hon. Senator Stewart ) . 
the Honourable John B . Stewart : 
honourable senators , I move : 
that the Senate approuve the second report of the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign presented at the Senate Committee 2 November 1999 . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the senator Stewart : 
honourable senators , I query say few mots Act what report , everything fell prévoyant ma motion Act the third report . 
you constaterez at Act Reading - Government Printed of them Journals of the Senate to the 2,500 November 1999 that a amount of 36,949 40,000 Expenditures Partnerships been approved yeas them travaux of the committee of them Affairs Foreign Act the Union European . 
we awakened dépensé what amount fell entier at the surveillance of health dernière session . 
we demandons today today that royal Share of what budget which no has not been utilisée yeas our study Act the NATO authorized reportée yeas Act poursuite of unabated study at the surveillance of health nouvelle session and that a amount Supplementary of 10 40,000 Expenditures authorized also approved . 
streets the case of the Prime report , all levels fund acclaimed been utilisés and we demandons the octroi of 6 500 Expenditures . 
fell somme , he remains streets the budget of health dernière session , yeas them two studies confondues , a solde of 64 400 Expenditures approximately who never acclaimed not yet been dépensés . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
if nil another senator not widow prendre Act parole , I vais allegiances Act motion at them Senators . 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is passed , and the report is passed . ) 
routine Foreign 
health Modified of the mandate of the Organization of the Traité of the Atlantic North - Adopted of the report budgétaire of the committee Act the study 
the Senate proceeded at the study of the third report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign ( budget - study Act Act relationship of the Canada with the NATO and the maintien of health peace ) presented at the Senate Committee 2 November 1999 . - ( Le hon. Senator Stewart ) . 
the Honourable John B . Stewart : 
honourable senators , I move : 
that the Senate adopte the third report of the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign presented at the Senate Committee 2 November 1999 . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée , and the report is passed . ) 
transport stratégies visant at respond at them needs of them aboriginal fell matière of housing 
inquiry 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act the inquiry of the Honourable Senator Chalifoux , calling the attention of the Senate Act to them stratégies visant at respond at them needs of them aboriginal fell matière of housing . - ( 
the Honourable Senator Rompkey , P ) . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
regarding the inquiry of the Honourable Senator Chalifoux , if human of another not wants prendre Act parole , the debate arranged considéré commentator terminé . 
health crisis streets the sector Farm 
Final Report series question of emergency Public fell vertu of the article 60 of the rules 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , we analyzed arrivés at Act end of the Order of the day . 
i convoque the Honourable Senator Gustafson . 
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson : 
honourable senators , pursuant at the paragraph 61 ( 1 ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that the Senate ajourne now fell standpoint of discuss the genus question of emergency Public , at savoir Act présente crisis of the Agriculture . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
the Honourable Erminie J . Cohen : 
honourable senators , I thank His Honour the Speaker of us wheel licences of heed what debate . 
i me sense obligée of there participate . 
i cannot fais not part of the committee sénatorial Standing of the Agriculture and the foreign Forestry . 
i vis fell milieu urbain . 
i organize very little of something at the Agriculture , but commentator I lobbyist at Act defence of them poor , I know what that what is that the carking . 
what is what that I ai observé when I ai attended at series rencontre with the foreign farmers and the foreign women of farmers to the Alberta , the Government Manitoba and the Day Saskatchewan he rereads has few weeks . 
i ai heard parler of health grave crisis that traversait the Agriculture , the saisies imminentes and the ses effects dévastateurs Act them families of farmers . 
what cauchemar , honourable senators , run product streets a country which proceeded yeas perhaps gerrymandering where he fact the better vivre at the world . 
honourable senators , I vais now you citer of them testimony commitments Act the crux , the foreign extraits of letters that we awakened reçues of women of farmers , the mothers , the parents and the grands - parents . 
health first letter complements of Carol Nicholson : 
i you écris yeas you express condolences composition of Women ' farmer and the mother at propos of health life Farm . 
health life Act Act ferme guardian pleasant auparavant , but them things acclaimed well changed ... 
i am mariée at mon husband , Martin , since 13 years . 
transport premières years at Act ferme not acclaimed not been if mauvaises , but them dernières years acclaimed been dévastatrices yeas we . 
mon husband has owed aller apply find a employment yeas allegiances of the pain Act Act table and subvenir at them needs of health family . 
he fact also the Government agriculture , the sorte that royal life is really painful yeas him . 
he has the habitude of apply lever at 4 hours of the morning and the travailler at them champs until at 2 hours of the afternoon - afternoon , yeas ensuite aller preoccupation his employment afin of pourvoir at them needs of health family . 
commentator he not pouvait apply permettre of prendre congé , some days he capitalists travailler day and focuses fell prenant only series hour or two - sommeil . 
certaines nuits , I entendais pleurer and I savais that what guardian mon husband because that he not pouvait everything simply not join them two bouts same fell travaillant analyzed of arrache - foot . 
he souhaite simply that ses children aient them mêmes things that foreign other children . 
dapper health apply détériore , he has lost much of poids , he remembered is replié Act him ? same , he essaye everything what that he can yeas try to sortir of the impasse . 
i cannot the fell aime that most , but what is mon husband that I veux , not series bombe at retardement . 
i am streets a état dépressif grave at cause of them calls téléphoniques and the Government harassment . 
he has fallu that moi also I particulars a employment at the outside and now I dois laisser condolences children of 1 , 10 and 11 years without mother . 
what is very durum and I pleure all levels days where I dois them laisser , I me request how they submariners and apply they acclaimed need to moi ... 
ma daughter Amanda has the foreign problems at the école , she has the Government evil at apply ajuster at his environment . 
bye the école til apply moque of she because that she never door not to beaux habits and that she never gave not them mêmes something that foreign other children . 
mon son Tyler is suivi by a thérapeute because that he knows that foreign time are durs and that he remembered fact of the souci yeas we . 
him also prétend perhaps patient yeas stay auprès of us . 
very often , health focuses , he dort at the foot of our bed . 
when til him request why , he répond that he wants see her father . 
Joshua , the bébé , is petit , but he ressent Act tension who règne streets Act maison and him non more not voit not ses parents often . 
he is with the one or the another . 
he pleure when I pars travailler and he essaye of not not me quitter of them yeux . 
what is terrible yeas a child of wheel at endurer ça . 
health life not is not easy at Act ferme and I hope to everyone mon heart that we allons recevoir of the assistance very soon . 
mon husband and moi , we cannot we voyons never , what who never is not sain yeas our wedding . 
mon husband habille the bébé and me the apporte at the work before the aller at his work . 
who is Act victim ? 
the bébé that til trimbale of a place at the another streets the froid and that he tangibly réveiller of dapper sieste . 
puis , business agents of recouvrement we harcèlent at the telephone . 
account tenu of the price of them céréales , who may apply permettre of sell ? 
what not is not them grandchildren amounts of these sales who permettront of régler them factures ... 
we analyzed all evil commitments . 
is - what that something a we tuned ? 
that arrive he at our fermes familiales ? 
our children souffrent . 
they not arresting not participate at them activities parascolaires with them other , because that we cannot fell awakened not them afford . 
Christmas and Oceans anniversaires are the foreign journées tristes yeas them children and their parents apply sentent always guilty because that they not arresting nothing their give . 
we avions a fund yeas them studies when business things allaient well , but we awakened owed utiliser the money yeas régler them factures . 
now , business children demandent at fréquenter the college ... 
i cannot know whereupon their respond . 
i fell aurais still much at say Act Act life at Act ferme currently , car I cannot fais that commencer . 
fell ending , I you supplie of venir fell assistance at them families of health community Farm who souffrent . 
aidez them children who vivent Act to them fermes . 
i voudrais that see again condolences children smile , songs and perhaps libres of stress . 
health life irait well better if the government ouvrait simply them yeux and prenait conscience of the fact that he rereads has the foreign problems of taille and that the foreign children fell souffrent also . 
Seneca a another extrait , honourable senators : 
he tangibly of thanking that I mentionne that I dois composer the numéro of emergency regarding health crisis Farm ( line 1 - 800 ) yeas make envoyer what fax puisque I cannot ai more access at the service of calls interurbains at cause of factures impayées . 
during Act harvest , we awakened owed make the nombreux calls yeas obtain the foreign pièces and the foreign réparations . 
yeas confirms , we awakened emprunté a telephone cellulaire . 
the 10 October , we awakened owed appeler the doctor yeas series emergency . 
commentator he not there has not to doctor streets our localité , we awakened owed make a interurbain . 
we cannot pouvions same not appeler series opératrice . 
ma mother is décédée fell July and , at least that they me appellent , I cannot pouvais same not avoided communiquer with ma family or with mon father yeas wheel of the réconfort . 
we exploitons series ferme familiale since 26 years . 
he remembered notional of series ferme Joint of 2 500 acres and the genus congruent of conditionnement of them seed at value ajoutée . 
during 17 years , mon husband and moi awakened worked at the outside yeas financer Act ferme . 
commentator we étions at the work every them two , we awakened owed embaucher of the assistance at Act ferme . 
everyone the money that gagnions allait at the employé and , when gerrymandering - ci is party at the bout of four years , we awakened owed assumer everything the work at Act ferme and at the outside . 
he has been difficult to garder the electrical , since a 2000 . 
what is the Day Saskatchewan Power Corporation that we awakened received the most regularly of them calls of recouvrement . 
til trouve well little of compassion when til is forcé of étaler ses misères appeared a employé of series grande society commentator celle - là . 
commentator always , I ai cultivé a grandfather potager . 
i ai past the summer and the fall at there travailler and at désherber , I ai congelé and overburdened fell conserve them products . 
condolences two congélateurs are pleins at ras bord of légumes and the fruits . 
i am fière and satisfaite of produire of whereupon nourrir ma family blunt series year . 
when I ai received series letter of health society me disant that the service allait perhaps coupé without another notice if the payment not him parvenait not , I ai commitments conscience that everyone mon work , all condolences fruits and légumes , risquaient of apply losing because that the electrical serait coupée . 
i cannot arrive not at croire that til puisse me forcer at me tribute streets series city and at make Appeal at series banque of alimentation tandis that foreign resources that I ai uncovered détruites . 
he rereads has truly something something which cloche when ceux who produisent of whereupon nourrir our country apply retrouvent completely démunis . 
i cuisine everything what that he we tangibly yeas them repas , business lunchs , etc. , but that apply proceeded he when we manquons of sucre , the poudre at pâte , the margarine , the huile ? 
that apply proceeded he when we manquons of lessive , the shampoing , the papier of toilette ( we cannot achetons more of papiers - mouchoirs ) . 
he rereads has the foreign things that til not can not produire se - even . 
we risquons of devenir végétariens , because that we cannot awakened not them afford to payer the abattoir yeas make abattre our boeuf . 
Seneca what that wrote series another lady : 
each year , we voyons our collectivité lutter yeas survivre . 
each year , she devient more petite . 
we cannot awakened more them afford to réparer the church . 
our centre originators we request more of time and the dons of nourriture because that the number of members continues to diminuer . 
when I vais me promener , I cannot takers never nothing to nouveau , the rafraîchissant , nothing who gives espoir . 
i cannot takers that the foreign things which apply détériorent , run rapetissent or meurent . 
streets our collectivité , business bébés are very rare . 
transport farmers acclaimed all between 45 and 85 years . 
i me request why we fell impotent là . 
i takers Act good mood and health health of mon husband constamment mises at the épreuve . 
condolences children repositories make every their efforts yeas reconcile their employment , business studies and Oceans activities parascolaires . 
i tuned ma vieille mother apply plaindre because that he me lack of time yeas aller him tribute visit . 
i am pourtant always prête when he remembered notional of serve the goûter after the foreign funérailles , at the bonspiel and at them mariages . 
i am celle who is là when til has need to aid at cause of series SOWIND , the one accident or the one Late . 
i dispel écouter condolences children when they me parlent of them inconvenience of health journée , even if what is streets Act cabine of the tracteur , when they me apportent a sandwich . 
and mostly , if the foreign thousands of other persons , everything commentator moi , repositories abandonner their exploitation Farm , where irons - we all ? 
there has he enough to jobs yeas we all ? 
health production alimentaire arranged she suffisante without we ? 
transport Lands uncovered - thin cultivées of manner at produire still enough to foods yeas condolences grandchildren - child and their children ? 
unabated letter complements of Judy . 
fell Seneca series another : 
we awakened unsuccessfully of diversifier our crops , but everything nécessite more of money . 
we awakened also songé at everything sell , but who serait enough fou yeas purchase of them Lands ? 
and if someone a fell achetait , after wheel payé all levels créanciers , he not him resterait not grandfather - something . 
prostituted - you noticed combien of farmers apply are suicidés these two dernières years ? 
we étions fiers of Welfare farmers , but we analyzed now réduits at the état of mendiants . 
perhaps - perhaps that if we ourselves installions streets a country of the tiers world , the government Heritage jugerait bon of us help . 
why devrions - we nourrir of other residents of health planet and perhaps obligés of lanced of hunger ? 
why the government refuses he ' understand and not recognizes - he not the ampleur of our needs ? 
veuillez hear our supplications before that he not authorized too later ! 
honourable senators , I ai terminé mon plaidoyer . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I am very pleased to power discuss and débattre of health issue . 
commentator what is series réelle source of préoccupation , I thank the senator ' we give the opportunity to fell parler . 
i vais commencer by try to équilibrer a little the debate that we allons hear today today . 
i brevity mon colleague the Government cabinet , the minister of the Agriculture and the Government Agroalimentaire , the Hon. interest and the Hon. commitment at the hook of series démarche national Joint at adopt fell reaction at them problems financiers who assaillent certes them farmers , fell particular streets them provinces of them Prairies . 
i dirai that these problems assaillent " some farmers " car - and I me hasten of the add - Government sector Farm remains streets the whole very fort and robuste . 
fell General , business incomes are very closely the foreign trends at term term and Oceans exports of products agroalimentaires are at Act hausse . 
( 1610 ) 
we awakened exporté the 2000 last more of 22 billion to $ of products agricultural and alimentaires . 
commitments séparément , business challenges that foreign farmers acclaimed strokes at relever at the surveillance of health dernière year not are not uniques . 
transport surveillance of them products of basic , business costs , business markets internationaux , the economy and Oceans conditions atmosphériques fluctueront always , sometimes referred the extrême . 
unabated once - ci , however , our farmers acclaimed owed affronter of them combinaisons particularly difficiles : the foreign price faibles yeas their products and the foreign costs of production élevés ; series diminution of health request for them summarizing markets and series hausse of the offers World of products clés ; the foreign conditions atmosphériques less than idéales and the foreign inondations or the foreign sécheresses . 
Subcommittee Act direction of the government federal , business representatives of them governments and the foreign farmers acclaimed cherché together series solution at a problem which is the autant more délicat that he not is not uniforme streets everything the country . 
health nature and the intensité of gerrymandering - ci varient according them regions and Oceans products cultivés . 
find series solution Universal devient therefore almost a casse - tête . 
the foreign measures acclaimed néanmoins been prises at bearer regard . 
the minister of the Agriculture has worked fell canvas collaboration with them provinces and Oceans territories afin of improving the program of protection of the Income Farm streets lequel them two paliers of government investiront , together , not least the one 1.1 of $ by year . 
the government has jeté them bases of them reforms at term term who permettront of improving , with the time , health ability to them producers of apply adapt at Act crisis of the Income , and who we aideront also at make opposite efficacement at them futures crises . 
fell July last , by example , the minister of the Agriculture and ses counterparts of them provinces and territories acclaimed began at décortiquer a certain number of problems regarding the élaboration of a program of assistance at more term term fell case of catastrophe liée at the Income Farm . 
streets the framework of them discussions , til has underlined Act necessity of veiller at what that the program at term term works efficacement with the CSRN , the EI - harvest and Oceans programs complémentaires particuliers at each province which forment the system of protection of the Income Farm . 
fell August and fell September , at the opportunity to rencontres réunissant of them country exportateurs of denrées agricultural , the minister of the Agriculture has also sparked a combat afin that the system commercial international génère of them incomes supérieurs yeas them farmers Airports . 
he remembered notional of health bataille proverbiale yeas of them rules of the stake équitables . 
the minister has presented Act Position of negotiating the Government Canada yeas Act next meeting of the Organization World of the trade . 
fort of the appui of the government and the Government industry , he has réclamé the abolition of them grants at the export , series reduction of them measures nationales of soutien at the Agriculture who acclaimed a effect of distorsion commerciale and series accessibility accrue of them farmers Airports at davantage of markets . 
these measures are the foreign elements importants of health strategy globale visant at improve them incomes of them producers . 
between time , honourable senators , the government has also overburdened fell implementation of them measures yeas accroître them incomes , yeas facilitate the access at series insurance - harvest more complète , yeas accélérer the access at them loans and at the épargne and yeas accroître them liquidités at the moment opportun . 
yeas atténuer them repercussions of series declining of them incomes , the government ' s Canada has élaboré , fell consultation with them producers and Oceans provinces , the Program of assistance fell case of catastrophe liée at the Income Farm , also appelé ACRA , program of 1.5 1.1 of $ . 
the government federal fournit 60p. cent of the funding , and Oceans provinces , business 40p. cent who restent . 
confirms represents 900 million for $ , honourable senators . 
he remembered notional of a program of two years at the intent of them farmers who are at them prises with the foreign baisses of incomes criticism . 
the government ' s Canada has also respecté a commitment to the minister , gerrymandering of fournir at them farmers to them payments provisoires streets the framework of the ACRA ; otherwise said , business farmers arresting wheel access more quickly at them fund whose they acclaimed need , at the instead of duty wait that all levels calculs soient facts at Act end of 1999 , year yeas laquelle Act request is présentée . 
agriculture and Agroalimentaire Canada has overburdened at the standpoint series formula of calcul rapide yeas help them farmers at évaluer the payment auquel they acclaimed right . 
honourable senators , we facilitons also the access at the CSRN . 
we awakened considérablement assoupli them rules relatives at them retraits of them comptes of stabilisation of the Income net and at them dépôts streets these derniers . 
fell consequential , 41 40,000 farmers additional acclaimed access more quickly at davantage of funds . 
bye Act end of the month of June , by subsequently of them consultations auprès of them provinces , the minister has announced the foreign changes at the CSRN who mettent 117 million for $ of more at Act provision of them farmers . 
transport retraits of them CSRN and Oceans payments at the subheading of the ACRA devraient , according them forecasts , ralentir of way appréciable Act declining of them incomes streets them Prairies fell General and fell Saskatchewan fell particular . 
the minister of the Agriculture apply attend at what that the plein amount of 1.5 1.1 of dollar affecté at the program ACRA authorized versé yeas 1998 and 1999 . 
fell outre , more of 105 40,000 farmers to a bout at the another of the country disposent of almost 1,2 1.1 of $ streets their comptes of stabilisation of the Income net , desquels they arresting make the foreign retraits blocks now . 
what is at confirms that they servent . 
nearly of 26 40,000 farmers the acclaimed already done at hauteur of more of 274 million for $ yeas power traverser unabated period difficult . 
fell Saskatchewan only , at Act end of the month of October , something 13 40,000 producers acclaimed puisé streets their CSRN and retiré more of 119 million for $ . 
what are the foreign amounts substantiels who arresting help a grandfather number of families of farmers at apply equation Act foot . 
series foule of between you apply rendent surely account the Day gravité of them difficulties that familiar them farmers and their family who acclaimed been touchés by foreign inondations and health sécheresse , and compatissent without doubt at their fate . 
recognizing the problem , the government ' s Canada has worked for concert with Act province of health Saskatchewan yeas improve the regime of insurance - harvest Act lequel account activist of farmers . 
yeas atténuer them difficulties of them producers , he has assoupli them rules of the regime of insurance - harvest , haussé them prestations , accéléré the treatment of them demandes and facilité the access at the regime . 
the nouvelles measures acclaimed been annoncées bearer been , and Oceans farmers to health Saskatchewan acclaimed hits until at 25 Expenditures the acre of insurance - harvest Supplementary Act Act superficie non ensemencée , fell sus of them 25 Expenditures the acre already prévus yeas Act superficie non ensemencée fell vertu of the regime of insurance - harvest of basic . 
a another supplement of 25 Expenditures the acre has been accordé at them farmers to health Saskatchewan and the Government Manitoba who never acclaimed avoided semer what spring . 
unabated assistance is fournie at title of payment interim streets the framework of the program ACRA . 
the government federal has also commitments to them measures afin of help them farmers at gérer their income fell veillant at what that they aient of them liquidités the most earlier possible after Act season of rBGH . 
i quote these figures yeas try to équilibrer the debate , non not yeas deny them graves problems auxquels Cutbacks opposite them farmers . 
the sector Farm connaît of graves problems , til not can the deny . 
conjugués , business factors that I ai mentionnés - faibles price of them products of basic and the fact that foreign rules not authorized not égales - acclaimed overburdened what sector of our economy streets series situation very difficult . 
what is why , even at the moment where we parlons , the sérieux audiences acclaimed instead between them representatives fédéraux and provinciaux . 
not more later than Act week dernière , the Prime Minister apply is entretenu with them premiers ministers of health Saskatchewan and the Government Manitoba at what topic . 
the minister federal - Government Agriculture , Rand Vanclief , is fell contact Standing with ses counterparts provinciaux . 
health situation is grave and the government Act traite fell consequential . 
confirms said , I you asking for me pardonner what léger gap . 
he tangibly apply remind that the government federal and Oceans provinces apply partagent Act responsibility to health situation Farm and the Government sector Farm . 
health solution at the problem cannot réside not streets the adoption of series measure unilateral by the government federal . 
by example , according to them informations récentes venant of health province of origin of the senator Gustafson , business impotent consacrées at the soutien of the Agriculture fell Saskatchewan by the administration provinciale acclaimed connu series chute very draconienne since the beginning of them years 90 . 
yesterday , the Auditor dd of health Saskatchewan , Wayne Strelioff , has announced that foreign impotent consacrées at them programs agricultural by Act province of Saskatchewan acclaimed diminué of more of 70p. cent since 1991 - 1992 . 
bye unabated époque , business impotent consacrées by Act province at them programs agricultural fell Saskatchewan apply établissaient at 1,2 1.1 of $ . 
fell 1997 - 98 , thin étaient of 251 million for $ . 
but what Premier Minister can apply introduce streets Act Capital , exiger that the government ' s Canada him verse immediately 1,3 1.1 of $ and repartir ensuite fell criant at the scandale , without even évoquer the moindrement the bilan of his own government . 
what is a problem federal - dd . 
he doit perhaps réglé by foreign two paliers of government . 
Koppel . Ken Krawetz , door - parole of them finances of the Opposition official fell Saskatchewan , attribue Act présente crisis of the Income Farm at the government dd . 
when the Auditor dd has done état of them GoVernment effectuées by the government dd , he has déclaré : 
what is Act reason yeas laquelle our economy Farm 21.2 them problems that she connaît at the hour actuelle . 
honourable senators , what who faces product at the palier of the government dd of health Saskatchewan fact ressortir Act necessity of series intervention fédérale - provinciale opposite at unabated sérieuse situation . 
he not apply notional not to a case where til can chercher at tirer a advantage partisan . 
what problem revêt too of importance yeas the country . 
the challenge at relever is too grandfather . 
the problem auquel Cutbacks opposite them farmers to them Prairies not is not imaginaire ; he is réel . 
he not has not seen the day yesterday and he not arranged not résolu tomorrow . 
i ai évoqué them efforts consentis until at now by the government . 
i hope wheel rose the EI that the minister of the Agriculture and the government continuent at manifester of the interest at the hook of what sector very important and that they consentiront of nouveaux efforts streets a proche future . 
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk : 
honourable senators , the existence of series crisis streets the field Farm not done nil doubt . 
he is incontestable that the Agriculture is fell crisis since long . 
he is certain also that foreign governments , provinciaux and federal , interviennent of time at another yeas help them farmers . 
health difference , today today , what not is not that we cannot awakened not to solution at term term , what is that the government federal not apply rend not account that royal situation fell Saskatchewan and at the Manitoba , streets them Prairies fell General , not is not Act same that elsewhere at the Canada . 
i screwed same that , at mon notice , all levels facts and all levels figures cités by the senator Boudreau are exacts . 
i cannot ai aucune reason for douter of ses figures . 
she touche them teachers , business doctors , business lawyers , business pompistes and Oceans serveuses . 
even without see them figures , everything the world apply rend well account that foreign farmers are streets series situation extremely grave . 
what is series situation of attest durée liée at them hauts and at them bas of health situation international , therefore , at them exports . 
however , yeas series reason or series another , business farmers apply retrouvent unabated once - ci streets series situation extremely grave . 
series delegation provinciale is venue at Ottawa yeas réclamer of the assistance . 
perhaps - perhaps these people auraient - they avoided make more , perhaps - perhaps auraient - they owed make more . 
they admits now Act gravité of the problem and health necessity of there remédier immediately . 
they attendaient and espéraient series response quelconque of the government federal . 
damned has been unabated response ? 
" rentrez chez you , we allons réexaminer them figures still series once . " 
he not there Partnerships not unabated volonté of travailler together , unabated volonté of regarder Act Saskatchewan and the Manitoba of a oeil différent . 
the senator Cohen has mentioned certaines letters envoyées at them parliamentarians . 
we recevons all of them letters désespérées . 
honourable senators , business problems fell Saskatchewan not découlent not only to them questions agricultural internationales . 
they viennent fell grande part of the fact that the Agriculture and Oceans questions agricultural propres at Act Saskatchewan are at the bas of health list of priorities of them questions agricultural . 
he not existe not at what day series policy Farm national who tienne account the foreign variations and the foreign variables propres at them various regions . 
we cannot osons not élaborer series strategy national . 
we ourselves préoccupons always the foreign problems propres at them farmers to the Quebec and the Government Ontario . 
we savons that royal Saskatchewan and the Manitoba acclaimed of other problems , without parler of them problems of them producers of fruits of health British - British and the foreign farmers to the Canada Atlantic . 
we imputons all our problems at Act situation international . 
we pouvons parler of the Elimination of them grants and pursue actively series strategy , Subcommittee Act direction deM. Marchi , yeas amener them States - U.S. and the Europe at éliminer their grants . 
the fact is that they not the acclaimed not done streets the past and that they not the feront not now . 
pourtant , we revenons without cesse at Act same strategy . 
we cannot awakened nothing fact of nouveau , the novateur or the différent . 
our leaders fédéraux repositories formuler series strategy , commentator they the acclaimed fact with the group of Cairns he rereads has a certain number of years . 
confirms we took licences of réaliser of them gains , and we fell retirons still them benefits streets them structures commerciales mondiales . 
where is Act nouvelle journalistic novatrice ? 
if we cannot awakened not to strategy , we serons at Act remorque of them Americans and the foreign Europeans . 
nothing streets the speech of the government federal not me laisse espérer that he has understood that he tangibly aborder Act question Subcommittee a Insignia angle . 
we fell awakened strokes a example frappant with Act measure legislative regarding health Commission canadienne of the Wheat . 
we awakened shirts at the council of directors of health Commission canadienne of the Wheat Board soin of régler them problems of them farmers Airports and the Government west of the Canada at the instead of élaborer of them programs of soutien legitimate at the intent of them farmers . 
by example , damned is our policy of marketing of them céréales ? 
the problem , what is that the government federal not comprend not that he doit make Evidence of creativity and tenter of find the nouvelles solutions at Act crisis of the Agriculture streets the West . 
transport premiers ministers provinciaux not acclaimed not always , eux non more , including the message . 
he has fallu of them election yeas fell réveiller few - uns and their make understand that we cannot impotent not at them prises with a problem Standing auquel he tangibly find series solution at term term . 
we analyzed fell pleine crisis . 
transport ministers Goodale and Vanclief soutiennent still that he is possible for régler the problem with them programs existants . 
during that they tentent of prouver their standpoint , business farmers Cutbacks bankruptcy . 
he not we restera more than the grandes companies agricultural . 
the government doit play franc - stake . 
wants - he that the Agriculture continues to perhaps a mode of life copy who assure Act production of them denrées who we are nécessaires ? 
we pouvons continue at manipulate them figures , he remains that foreign farmers to health Saskatchewan are more nombreux that never at abandonner their lands . 
transport families subissent of them pressure without precedent . 
we cannot serons not fell measure of soutenir the Agriculture fell Saskatchewan if we poursuivons Act unabated lancée . 
honourable senators , the time imparti is elapsed . 
the foreign speech acclaimed been entendus streets them two Houses . 
all levels parties other than gerrymandering of the government reconnaissent that the debate has been suffisamment term and that he convient at présent of prendre a commitment concret . 
if the Prime Minister , or her Minister of the Agriculture , Partnerships accordé series assistance to emergency at them farmers to health Saskatchewan , who représentent 3,2 yeas cent of health population , he their aurait rose series Gallery of recognition . 
today today , we comptons them votes . 
health Saskatchewan and the Manitoba not auront not Act majority . 
he not is not streets our interest of reprocher unabated situation at them provinces . 
these dernières uncovered amenées at assumer their share of everyone program which arranged conduit and thin acclaimed already indiqué their agreed . 
the government federal seems rejeter ses responsibilities Act them other and he not has nothing proposed the constructif at what day . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate has redit that the government étudierait them figures avancés and that he poursuivait ses travaux streets of them committees réunissant of them representatives of them provinces and the Day collectivité Farm . 
the government federal is the odyssey at soutenir that the program fell vigueur gives the bons results . 
all levels agencies agricultural , business governments provinciaux and mostly them farmers affirment the contrary . 
honourable senators , that paving he falloir yeas that the government vienne fell assistance at ceux who veulent continue to ensure the supply alimentaire and yeas that royal Saskatchewan and the Manitoba continuent of make part of health mosaïque canadienne ? 
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs : 
honourable senators , I thank the Honourable Senator Gustafson of wheel lancé what debate on emergency Act unabated importante question . 
i thank them senators Spivak , Andreychuk , Gustafson , Tkachuk and Sparrow who , durant the spring and the fall , laughed often posé of them questions at the government Act them problems that connaît the sector Farm , mostly fell Saskatchewan and at the Manitoba . 
honourable senators , he is important to savoir that , when the government federal lobbyist with them provinces , business associations agricultural , business farmers and Oceans producers at Act preparedness of a plan , and that the Mifflin not works not , he not tangibly not fell make porter everything the blâme at the government , what who is too often the case . 
however , what not is not a program overburdened fell 9uvre sideshow by the government federal . 
what is a program federal auquel them provinces participent . 
transport provinces étaient fières of announce what program with the government federal . 
thin croyaient that he aiderait them producers agricultural fell difficulty streets the whole of the country . 
hélas , confirms not has not been the case . 
when the government federal said that he doit examiner them criteria , And the program and find the foreign afford to the make fonctionner , we devons there see something something of valable . 
when the government federal fact remarquer that he not is not the odyssey obviate fell cause and that he not can propose an program that foreign other parties who collaborent at the program original not approuvent not , we cannot pouvons not agir . 
what not is not a problem which depends sideshow of the government federal . 
puisque the ACRA is a program at 60 / 40 , confirms signifie that foreign provinces repositories absorber 40 p.100 of them costs . 
the one of them more importants problems auxquels them farmers to the south - west of the Manitoba and the genus grande part of health Saskatchewan acclaimed fact opposite has been the flood . 
the Prime Minister Romanow etM. Vanclief , the minister federal - Government Agriculture , fell are flocked at series entente . 
they apply are entendus Act a amount Supplementary of 50 Expenditures by acre of terrain non ensemmencé . 
that apply is - he past streets ma province ? 
the Prime Minister , appeared apply introduce at them urnes , has decided to no not sign unabated entente . 
the government federal not pouvait aller of the prior without Act participation of health province puisque the program of insurance - harvest is a program conjoint . 
what not is not a program federal unilatéral . 
he is important to savoir exactly why the ACRA not works not . 
clearly , business criteria fixés by all levels partners not étaient not them bons . 
Était - what voulu ? 
there has he strokes series tentative délibérée of allegiances fell place a program which no fonctionnerait not ? 
nay , I cannot the believe not . 
i think that the senator Andreychuk has reason , he aurait fallu perhaps particularly sensible at them problems of health Saskatchewan and the Government Manitoba . 
voyons why the program not has not rose them results escomptés . 
transport senators Spivak and Andreychuk acclaimed porté at mon attention the fact that foreign farmers étaient obligés of apply adresser at a comptable that they payaient 400 , 500 or 600 Expenditures yeas that he remplisse them formulaires . 
clearly , what is Act first mistake . 
if them formulaires guardian tellement compliqués , we aurions owed fournir at them farmers the assistance necessary yeas them remplir . 
we cannot the awakened not done . 
he is malheureux that we ayons manqué unabated opportunity , richly at the beginning of them vacances academic , the engager and the former of young students fell comptabilité yeas help them farmers at remplir these formulaires . 
we cannot the awakened not done . 
the senator Sparrow has done remarquer that , yeas a certain program , business formulaires not rentraient same not streets them enveloppes who étaient fournies . 
what guardian can - perhaps a program différent , but we cannot awakened not réagi also quickly at what kind of details that we aurions owed the make . 
that apply is - he past ? 
based a program of 1.5 1.1 of $ , whose 900 million for the government federal , according condolences more récents figures , only 236 million acclaimed been dépensés . 
the senator Gustafson : 
the money is also allé at them mauvaises persons . 
the senator Carstairs : 
where paving the rest of the money ? 
the senator Spivak : 
bye them mauvaises persons . 
the senator Carstairs : 
why these farmers streets the need not are - they not admissibles at these funds ? 
how pouvons - we make fell sorte that they reçoivent bearer money ? 
before that we cannot commencions at parler of nouveaux fund , we devons we ensure that foreign farmers to health Saskatchewan and the Government Manitoba reçoivent the money already engagé . 
i am entièrement convaincue that the minister Vanclief lobbyist of arrache - foot , richly yeas find quickly the moyen of equation the rest of bearer money at them farmers to health Saskatchewan and the Government Manitoba . 
we devons examiner them price . 
we devons understand that , at nowhere else époque of our history , business price not acclaimed been also bas , fell $ comparables . 
we devons travailler fell collaboration , and I cannot parle not sideshow of them provinces and the Government government federal . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate has underlined them contributions réduites that the government ' health Saskatchewan fact at the Agriculture . 
i am désolée of say that royal same situation existe at the Manitoba . 
everyone the world has reculé and decided to dépenser less yeas what sector . 
honourable senators , the foreign changes very complex acclaimed marqué the Evolution of the Agriculture streets the west of the Canada . 
we cannot awakened not yet réagi commentator he convient at all these changes . 
health Gotcha way whose we réussirons at satisfaire at them needs of them farmers to the west of the Canada , what is whether them governments federal and provinciaux , business farmers and Oceans agencies of growers collaborent all . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
honourable senators , I thank His Honour the Speaker of wheel licences what debate . 
some of between you not the savent can - perhaps not , but he has referred series époque représenté series riding Farm that I organize well , soitSte. Rose , at the Manitoba . 
i ai also well aimé them commentaires venant of the another side of health House , authorized ceux of the senator Carstairs and the Government Leader of the government . 
i know that their commentaires are sincères . 
i cannot conteste not the fact that the foreign blâmes acclaimed been exprimés of share and the another . 
we devons travailler together , but he remains a certain number of points at éclaircir . 
bye mon notice , til not recognizes not suffisamment the character urgent of the problem . 
he not convient not to apply pencher Act them programs fell vigueur ; they not acclaimed not to importance at the hour actuelle . 
the problem is urgent . 
why the problem is - he if urgent ? 
health situation is well worse than streets them years 30 because that foreign farmers are much more endettés . 
they acclaimed 3.26 of them impotent incroyables at the acquisition of machines and the intrants . 
now , business Banking are prêtes at saisir them exploitations fell réalisation of garantie . 
transport farmers not arrivent not at payer their taxes . 
perhaps - perhaps is - he true that the government ' health Saskatchewan has reduced the 70p. cent dapper contribution financière at Act collectivité Farm , but the government federal has contributed at the problem . 
when I parle of the government federal , I cannot dissenting not sideshow the government Liberal . 
i veux say the government federal , gerrymandering who has reduced the 60p. cent them grants at the transportation fell standpoint of diminuer the deficit . 
unabated declining guardian too élevée and is survenue too quickly and she has strokes of them consequences catastrophiques yeas them farmers to the Manitoba . 
he not there has that the government federal who account series assiette fiscale enough importante yeas fournir now what amount of 1,3 1.1 of $ . 
transport governments provinciaux , and little regardless them péchés who acclaimed been commis by foreign administrations précédentes , and God knows that they acclaimed been nombreux , not acclaimed not the assiette fiscale voulue yeas their venir fell assistance . 
transport provinces acclaimed reduced the deficit and affecté of the money at Act health and at the education . 
the government federal apply attend now at a surplus of 60 billion to $ and more at the surveillance of them prochaines years . 
the Government money is destiné at the Fund - dotation of them scholarships to studies of the millennium and at the other activities who are importantes , but who never constitute not series crisis urgente . 
commentator them honourable senators ' acclaimed said here , a mode of life is fell train of disparaître . 
blunt the economy Farm of the West is transformée Subcommittee on influence of the intégration verticale . 
health Cargill and the other companies apply empareront of more fell more of exploitations agricultural if we maintenons what cap . 
if you not voulez not that confirms apply produise , you devez agir quickly . 
sometimes , health meilleure way of agir BNA at trancher streets the crux . 
these Canadians very productifs are commitments at the milieu of series War economic . 
i voudrais that foreign honourable senators sachent that our farmers are productifs . 
pourtant , the government not seems not see the enormous désavantage competitive of them farmers Airports whose the sector has exporté the 2000 last yeas 26 billion to $ . 
what not is not the access at them markets who is fell cause here , but the price payé yeas the product . 
the access at them markets can help them producers , but when bearer access is finalement assuré , he is perhaps - perhaps already overburdened later . 
health competition is impossible Act them markets of export when business grants versées by foreign States - U.S. and the Europe are équivalentes at well - Provincial once what that the government ' s Canada can verser . 
the message that the government has livré at them farmers by the intermédiaire of them premiers ministers provinciaux Act week dernière not Partnerships nothing to surprenant . 
the government their has done savoir that he refusait their request for assistance Supplementary . 
they are sortis fell July . 
Dwain Lingenfelter , the minister of the Agriculture of health Saskatchewan , affirme that foreign figures of the government federal comportent can - perhaps the graves mistakes . 
Évidemment , his opinion is biaisée because that he lobbyist and 21.2 fell Saskatchewan , that he remembered entretient with them farmers and that he expecting the problem of close . 
by against , business officials fédéraux acclaimed , according them paroles of Rex Murphy , the advantage " the genus perspective déformée by a périscope of vision at attest distance " . 
the minister Lingenfelter has affirmé that foreign figures fédéraux surestimaient them gains , there including streets the case of them payments fell vertu of the ACRA and the Government CSRN . 
the genus way or the Government another , these nouvelles estimations indiquent series diminution of 60 million for $ of them fees of exploitation fell Saskatchewan , what who is appréciable . 
til not knows not to where 6,000 these figures . 
the minister of the Agriculture of the Manitoba has déclaré that foreign forecasts fédérales Languages yeas Act Saskatchewan and the Manitoba , who acclaimed been publiées fell July , restaient valables because that very little of things acclaimed changed since . 
however , business ministers provinciaux acclaimed déclaré that the payment of equalization of 1,3 1.1 of $ at the chapter of the trade , that they specialist asked to Ottawa , guardian well little . 
bye the bout of the countdown , somewhat regardless them estimations , he is indéniable that our farmers acclaimed need to aid currently . 
thin are entièrement liées at the economy and at the trade at the échelle World . 
transport price that foreign farmers repositories verser yeas them biens and services are constamment fell hausse . 
i fais allusion at them engrais , at them herbicides , at the carburant , at them services publics , at them assurances and at them réparations . 
bye thin seules , business Estimates apply établissent between 60 and 80 Expenditures by acre . 
what amount not inclut not them taxes , business réparations at them immeubles and Oceans emprunts yeas the équipement who arresting achieve 40 Expenditures by acre . 
when the Wheat apply vendait 160 Expenditures Act tonne and the colza 355 Expenditures Act tonne , the farmer gagnait fell end of account something something . 
unabated year , the price of the Wheat apply situe at 24p. cent au - dessous of health average of them five dernières years and the price of the colza has descended of a tiers . 
the price of them products has atteint the one of them niveaux them more bas never connus , yeas three reasons . 
health first is that unabated year , everything commentator the year dernière , health production is nettement Superior at Act average . 
health seconde is that royal request has descended fell reason for health situation financière streets the world , particularly fell Asia . 
health third is that our summarizing competitors , business States - U.S. and the Union European , guarding their farmers to these conditions commerciales very sévères fell their accordant of fortes grants . 
commentator acclaimed avoided the constater them members of the committee of the Agriculture when they apply are rendus fell Europe , these grants encouragent Act surproduction , who entraîne series saturation of the market and done chuter them price . 
transport grants who are accordées elsewhere constitute a problem important yeas our farmers . 
since 1993 , the Canada has reduced the 45p. cent the assistance that he accorde at the Agriculture . 
transport States - U.S. the acclaimed réduite of 34p. cent , and she never gave not virtually not baissé streets the Union European . 
the OECD estimated at 5:30 Expenditures trillion by acre , fell average , the assistance granted at all levels farmers - not only at them producers of céréales and the seeds oléagineuses . 
unabated assistance is the 45 Expenditures by acre at them States - U.S. and the 362 Expenditures by acre streets the Union European . 
without measures to soutien of the Income additional décrites at fair title by Act delegation of health Saskatchewan commentator of them payments to equalization commerciale , business farmers to health Saskatchewan perdront collectively approximately 48 million for $ . 
til évalue these losses at cent million for $ at the Manitoba . 
nil sector industriel not could espérer stay competitive streets of telles circumstances . 
he tangibly régler the problem of them grants internationales . 
between - time , the government federal doit help davantage our farmers . 
sinon , our farmers emigrate equation their lands , series at series , at them Banking and at them multinationales who arresting apply permettre of wait that the government cesse of apply entêter or that foreign country of the UE réduisent the assistance that they accordent at their farmers . 
bye Act subsequently of them studies and the Government trip fell Europe the Government committee sénatorial of the Agriculture , we savons all that foreign poules auront of them dents before that the UE réduise his assistance . 
if the government continues to suivre unabated line of conduct , he choisit series voie without precedent yeas our country . 
contrairement at them governments who never pouvaient guère offer to aid at the époque of health grande crisis , the government Present has the Government money . 
he aurait them afford to help them producers alimentaires at surmonter unabated period difficult . 
honourable senators , I parle mostly of them people of the west of the Canada . 
transport producers dairy and Oceans producers of volaille apply fell tirent well fell reason for them programs of management of the offers . 
some palatable accuser the government federal and the other paliers gouvernementaux of Welfare at the origin of the problem , car they acclaimed imposed at the sector Farm of them cuts supérieures at 1 1.1 of $ yeas régler the problem of the deficit . 
why the government should perhaps he help them farmers at garder their lands ? 
fell activist that Canadienne of the West , I serais tentée of say that he should the make because that the sector Farm is the soul of series vast part of our country . 
i parle here to them exploitations agricultural familiales . 
what mode of life is also précieux yeas them families of farmers that the French the is yeas them Quebecers , that royal life fell sea or at proximité of celle - ci the is yeas them residents of them provinces of the Atlantic and that foreign mountains and Forestry the are yeas them Britanno - Colombiens . 
i am tentée of parler of health value culturelle and patrimoniale of the Agriculture . 
i know however that at the bout of the countdown , he not there fingertips that foreign figures who compteront yeas the government - Government number of seats , business revenues and Oceans statistics Act them exports . 
honourable senators , I hope that some of between eux not porteront not too at controversy . 
a pain coûte sometimes 2 billion or more . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
the senator Spivak : 
i request Act leave of pursue . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
leave is - she granted ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Spivak : 
bye reason for 30 bushels at the acre , business 160 acres of the farmer donnent of whereupon make yeas 342 40,000 Expenditures of pain . 
transport farmers are perhaps - perhaps at the bord of health bankruptcy , but much of people comptent Act their grain yeas réaliser a joli profit or toucher a income modest . 
a another example important is the producteur of barley who loses of the money Act all levels acres . 
fell produisant 50 bushels at the acre and fell them vendant at the foreign brasseries yeas make the Day bière , the producteur génère of them revenues fiscales énormes yeas them governments federal and provinciaux . 
finally , honourable senators , I dépose of them letters of children of our region yeas that royal Senators ' ceux - ci authorized entendue . 
he tangibly contrer unabated catastrophe if the snakes not wants not that blunt the economy Farm of the West authorized transformée . 
ai - I Act leave of déposer these letters ? 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , the senator Spivak request at déposer of them letters . 
voulez - you that these letters soient déposées ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the Honourable Douglas Roche : 
honourable senators , he remembered tient what night a debate capital Act them difficulties of the industry Farm of the Canada . 
the Agriculture constitue the heart of the economy of ma province , the Alberta , and Oceans farmers to health province not acclaimed not aimé the treatment insensible who has been accordé at them premiers ministers of health Saskatchewan and the Government Manitoba when they acclaimed presented their demandes legitimate at the government ' s Canada . 
unabated insensibilité of the government federal has done to autant more evil that she apply is manifestée at the moment where the government federal engrangeait a extraordinary surplus . 
transport farmers and their leaders acclaimed been déçus by the lack of leadership of the government , who never gave not réagi of way satisfactorily at Act situation désastreuse streets laquelle apply trouvent them farmers Airports . 
the foreign families are fell train of losing their ferme , and the foreign usines repositories fermer their doors fell Alberta and fell Saskatchewan , what who faces traduit by the foreign losses of jobs and series grande détresse social and economic . 
we analyzed witnesses from the agonie of blunt series industry and the ses effects dévastateurs Act Act population of the West . 
allons - we say at Act population of the West that the government federal not can nothing make yeas she Robbie that he doit decide whereupon make with ses impressionnants surplus budgétaires who never cessent of croître . 
he is clear that royal population of the West has need to series assistance transitoire of health share of the government federal yeas apply adapt . 
the industry is durement frappée because that ses competitors of them other countries profitent of subsidies at the export and the grants internes . 
the government doit surely heed account the foreign difficulties of them Prairies streets the élaboration of dapper strategy yeas the sommet at venir of the Organization World of the trade , who faces tiendra at Seattle . 
however , health situation actuelle not doit not perhaps maintenue during Senators negotiations commerciales , who palatable durer long , car celles - ci not uncovered of nil secours if the industry Farm is completely ruinée . 
series assistance fédérale Supplementary is requise now . 
the Honourable Nicholas W . Taylor : 
honourable senators , I participe at what debate with series certaine carking , car streets the field of the Agriculture , he is difficult to prendre exactly them measures which apply imposent . 
we ourselves penchons Act the adaptation at a free market at the horizon , and we voyons the exploitation Farm familiale non only commentator series congruent , but commentator series maison , a mode of life and series collectivité , commentator til the has already underlined . 
what is a problem difficult . 
he convient of apply remind that he rereads has referred peine six years , business organizations agricultural venaient at Ottawa and at Edmonton , where I siégeais at the assemblée legislative , yeas ask at the government ' apply withdraw the Government sector of the Agriculture . 
i am a member of the committee of the Agriculture and we parcourons the West , fell particular the Manitoba and health Saskatchewan , who acclaimed more of prairies that the Alberta , ma province , and where the problem is probably worse still . 
the most , fell activist that member of the committee of the Agriculture , I ai visited the Europe yeas try to me entretenir with them representatives of health Communauté European . 
commentator the senator Spivak : has signalé at fair title , business Europeans not acclaimed not really the intent of changer . 
til assiste streets the field of the Agriculture at series revolution fell something sorte . 
the government Present , who faces trouve perhaps mon government , is obligé of transformer the assistance at them operators agricultural and at them producers of denrées fell function of the product fell series form of insurance - income . 
confirms is venu everything naturally at the Canada car , fell activist that Canadians , we exportons series if grande share of our production alimentaire compared at everything another country that , if we tentions of subventionner the price of our products , that he remembered agisse of wheat , the apples or the whereupon that what authorized to another , the rest of the country not could not supporter these Estimates . 
analyzed , we awakened trouvé series solution who , we the espérons , arranged quickly adoptée by the Europe occidentale . 
til has strokes a aperçu of dictatorship fell Germany and fell Scandinavie where , at the instead of payer them producers of denrées fell function of them units of production , that he remembered agisse of series cow , the genus pinte of milk or the one bushel of grain , til has établi series certaine form of insurance - income . 
we awakened essayé of make understand at them Europeans of the West that their méthode consistant at payer them producers of denrées fell function of the product conduisait at Act pollution of their environment . 
the foreign nitrites contaminaient their nappe phréatique at cause of series too grande fertilisation and the genus invasion yeas various types of mauvaises herbes , analyzed that at Act subsequently of changes génétiques yeas accroître Act production of grain . 
transport Europeans modifiaient them grains and the rest . 
when til récompense them farmers fell function of their production , commentator the Europe the Government West and Oceans States - U.S. the Cutbacks , til cause much of pity at the Environment . 
fort judicieusement , the Canada has opté yeas the EI - income . 
fell fact , we cannot devrions not jeter the bébé with the water of the bain . 
the EI - income apply effondre streets them Prairies . 
he not there has not to doubt that our way of analyser the Income not works not very well fell Saskatchewan and at the Manitoba . 
however , he is interesting to see that what regime works well fell Alberta . 
confirms me ennuie of the say , because that I faisais part of the Opposition and that I ai attaqué the government at the époque , but them members of the government albertain acclaimed been Incidence them premiers at the Canada at propose the idea of ensure the Income . 
confirms has very well fonctionné . 
a certain number of accident géologiques and géographiques Cutbacks that unabated province has less of problems that we , fell Saskatchewan and at the Manitoba , but she réussit at régler the problem better than them other provinces . 
what is mostly because that she has consulted them producers agricultural , business amenant at penser at the EI - income , not yeas obtain activist of $ the acre or activist of $ yeas the Wheat , what who fausse the market . 
if the snakes is really fell favour of the market free , til wants concevoir his system of way at what that the market free works well , what who guess , well course , the existence of series insurance - income quelconque . 
bye bearer regard , the government Heritage has done a not streets Act good direction fell instaurant the ACRA and Oceans other programs of assistance conçus yeas récompenser them farmers and Oceans producers of wheel épargné of the money fell prévision of days later difficiles . 
fell Ontario , the allowance atteint approximately 15 40,000 Expenditures by producteur and , streets the whole of the Canada , she is the at somewhat close 14 40,000 Expenditures by producteur . 
everyone system or program illogical Act the Income exige that foreign farmers apply occupent of their comptabilité well différemment that til not the faisait streets the past . 
if the government is coupable of something something , what is perhaps - perhaps the Government lack of sensibilité whose business bureaucrats acclaimed fact Evidence fell instaurant a regime of insurance - income rather than a regime of insurance - products . 
that the snakes apply shows sometimes little compatissant , voilà who is inexcusable . 
the problem has can - perhaps been aggravé by the fact that the government apply is montré a little insensible streets ses relations with them farmers fell what who pertains the regime of insurance - income , but he tangibly see them things of the standpoint of standpoint of them farmers . 
their fatalisme and their carking not are not entièrement the fact of the government , and their sentiment apply exprime analyzed : " Si the government not has not avoided sell mon Wheat Board year dernière and that foreign récoltes are maigres unabated year , Robbie that I cannot cultive that the foreign céréales , that vais - I make the year next ? " 
til not move not , and perhaps - perhaps the should perhaps til , the foreign afford to changer the system yeas offer at them farmers to them perspectives of future streets what field . 
the odyssey moyen who seems apply offer at eux BNA at make competition at them Europeans of the West and at them Americans , who bénéficient of subsidies , and at ask ensuite at the government ' fill Act difference . 
they savent that everyone government finira by say : " Il tangibly allegiances a frein at everything ça . 
til can most you subventionner Act Act basic of the surveillance of them products agricultural . " 
series sorte of revolution apply ombudsman streets Act production alimentaire . 
the farmer not knows not at whereupon apply fell heed ; the Opposition says that the government not connaît not Act solution , and nothing not me allows the croire that the Opposition , here or at the another place , health connaît . 
honourable senators , I voudrais that he we authorized proposed series solution to rechange - that he we authorized proposed a little more than a simple review objective . 
he arrive sometimes that royal first idea authorized Act good . 
we awakened our own committee of the Agriculture . 
we pourrions can - perhaps make a effort yeas them producers of the sector agroalimentaire , their redonner espoir fell their permettant of pursue their activité streets their community and the cheering make instruire their children , at the instead of us settle the their remind that he we tangibly soutenir Act competition of them Americans and the foreign Europeans and that we manquons of money . 
what not is not series solution . 
the aucuns diront that royal protection of the Income is commentator a filet of security which serait tendu Subcommittee them not to a funambule . 
if we réussissons at allegiances fell place a program of protection of the Income who , by the Action of health free congruent , permettra at them farmers to find their propres solutions of rechange , we aurons accompli something something . 
i request instamment at the Senate to mener series Action fell what sense , car what not are not them ideas who we manquent . 
the Honourable David Tkachuk : 
honourable senators , I voudrais before blunt something thank His Honour the Speaker of wheel authorized what debate today today . 
unabated reduction has been opérée by a government néo - démocrate . 
unabated initiative has without doubt licences of éponger the deficit of health province . 
bye the seen the Day situation actuelle , the government and Oceans senators ' fell opposite devraient power encourage Act province at mobiliser of them financements complémentaires , puisque they apply entendent if well with them néo - démocrates . 
Melenchuk and Romanow are partners fell policy , they siègent of the same side of health House , and , fell what who pertains Act population of health Saskatchewan , they not Cutbacks that a . 
and assurément , fell what who pertains them farmers , they not Cutbacks that a . 
commentator the has done observer the senator Spivak , unabated élection has incitéM. Romanow , the Prime Minister of health Saskatchewan , at solliciter Ottawa yeas fell obtain the Government assistance yeas ses farmers . 
fell ma quality of Conservative , I puis at everything the least affirmer that Alvin Hamilton , John Diefenbaker , Don Mazankowski , Bill McKnight , Charlie Mayer and Brian Mulroney prenaient the time to écouter and the understanding them Canadians to the West . 
i cannot dispel not fell say autant of the Present government federal . 
when he guardian our Prime Minister , Rand Mulroney prenait the time to apply pencher Act Act situation of the Agriculture streets the West ; and he réussissait at fell cerner them problems , at the contrary to his prédécesseur immédiat , who guardian of allégeance libérale and who is , well heard , the Present Prime Minister . 
bye mon notice , that foreign price of them products of basic tombent not intéresse not them Liberals . 
by example , when the price of the pétrole is monté and that foreign Canadians to the West acclaimed began at fell withdraw them benefits , business Liberals acclaimed overburdened fell place on Program énergétique attain , a program which prenaient at them provinces productrices of pétrole of them billion to $ who their appartenaient yeas them redistribuer at everything the rest of the Canada . 
by Act subsequently , they acclaimed payé the price policy and despite the petit sursaut of 1993 , he paieront still series once the price policy . 
health response to the government at unabated crisis has been the program ACRA . 
what is series response libérale typique . 
what is a program of assistance social . 
we cannot remplissons not to formulaires . 
what not is not analyzed that we réagissons . 
pourtant , what is what that foreign Liberals apply attendent at what that foreign farmers fassent . 
fell 1996 - 97 , the Income Farm net attain has descended of 55p. cent , and has descended still the 35p. cent fell 1997 - 98 . 
fell Saskatchewan and at the Manitoba , the Income Farm is négatif . 
the government Present not has not to politics Farm national . 
everyone what that he moved when he rereads has a problem streets the West what are the foreign solutions provisoires . 
streets them zones very peuplées of the East , he existe of them boards of marketing , a program of subsidies versées directly at the producteur by the consommateur . 
what is exactly what fell whereupon BNA a office of marketing . 
what is a monopoly . 
streets the West , we ourselves débrouillons everything seuls . 
we savons all what who faces proceeded fell Europe . 
certaines country paient until at 8 Expenditures the bushel of wheat . 
transport governments européens the subventionnent , car they not arresting not the sell at what price . 
they not arresting same not the brader . 
the other countries not veulent not more éliminer their programs of subsidies that we cannot voulons éliminer our boards of marketing . 
health reason at confirms is that , series once that you êtes habitués at them grants and that you grandissez and that you you enrichissez with these grants , he devient politiquement impossible to them éliminer . 
what is what who arrive fell Europe . 
transport Americans apply are lancés streets Act bataille . 
they acclaimed decided to apply battre against foreign Europeans and they subventionnent now their agriculture . 
during what time , business poor farmers to the West Heritage , not bénéficiant not to protection Act the market , run trouvent streets series impasse . 
what not is not rare streets the West . 
what not is rare nowhere share yeas them farmers . 
when business Lands of a farmer are fertiles and that he voit of other people tirer them benefits of ses Lands , make the Government pain , the Government whisky , the Day bière or exporter ses products at bas price streets the world entier and that confirms not him rapporte nothing , health situation is critique . 
what is what who faces proceeded today today streets them Prairies . 
the senator Taylor has déclaré that he not Partnerships not heard them senators ' what side - ci propose the solutions . 
i cannot know not very well what that we devrions make , but I know series something : we cannot pouvons not continue to cultiver of them products that all levels other countries subventionnent . 
we connaissons our economy and we savons that if them automobiles are bradées fell Europe , til not rereads not make the profit Act them automobiles fell America of the North . 
gold , what is what that Cutbacks these countries . 
they bradent their wheat . 
the Canada is a country exportateur . 
he not there has not suffisamment of people at the country yeas consommer everything what that we produisons . 
we devons them protect because that they savent how exploiter these Lands . 
we cannot pouvons them laisser apply appauvrir and quitter their lands . 
we devons allegiances Act foot a program attain who serait illogical non not based on assistance social , but rather Act series strategy Farm industrielle prévoyant that these Lands devraient serve at another something . 
honourable senators , we devons also prévoir series period of transition . 
i believe that he particulars prévoir series period of transition of ten years at the surveillance of laquelle the farmer recevrait series certaine somme by acre of earth . 
he serait Robbie motivé at adopt series culture rentable puisque he ferait Robbie more of money . 
however , he not particulars not reduce the payment at the acre accordé at a farmer who réussit . 
assurons - we rather than he réussisse yeas that he authorized fell measure of abandonner him ? same health subvention . 
what is what that we devons make . 
we cannot pouvons not ask at them Europeans of abdicate at them grants . 
oublions confirms . 
we savons all what who arrive with the assistance social . 
transport people deviennent of more fell more dépendants and they refusent of apply fell sortir . 
what is what who arrive . 
transport Americans acclaimed decided to agir otherwise . 
fell activist that Conservative , I believe that royal life rurale revêt series grande importance yeas a country . 
i cannot query not that all levels Canadians vivent streets of them cities . 
transport regions rural constitute a kind of refuge . 
bon number of people considèrent that he is well - power aller streets Act nature or the run promener streets a parc where he not there has human . 
til apply retrouve fell something sorte odyssey . 
if you êtes already allés streets them regions rural of health Saskatchewan , the Government Alberta , the Government Quebec or the Government Ontario , you savez exactly what that I veux say . 
transport regions rural are différentes and thin are importantes . 
however , thin repositories also perhaps viables of the standpoint of standpoint economic . 
transport residents of them regions rural are intelligents . 
yeas vivre and survivre fell campaign , he tangibly perhaps intelligent and travailler fort . 
donnons a little of espoir at them farmers . 
cessons of say that they are fell difficulty and that he existe a program of assistance social . 
confirms not aidera fell nothing . 
these people cannot veulent not to the assistance social . 
they not fell acclaimed never voulu and not fell veulent not davantage now . 
however , I vais you say series something . 
if we them rendons dépendants of the assistance social , they not pourront more apply fell mood . 
Koppel . Romanow is venu here . 
i cannot think not wheel been never the agreement with Roy Romanow , but unabated once - ci , I him gives reason for perhaps venu . 
the Prime Minister of the Manitoba the accompagnait analyzed that the foreign leaders of the Opposition and the foreign delegations of farmers . 
he not has not been well treaty . 
the government not has not accordé series priority very upper at their concerns . 
we awakened listened the speech that the minister of them Finance has done yesterday ; he not has not series Gotcha once mentioned the Agriculture , and what , series week after their visit . 
oh ! yes , what is important , but streets the speech of the minister of them Finance , what not is not also important that confirms . 
he said : " Je ai 90 billion to $ at dépenser , I brûle of impatience . 
perhaps - perhaps vais - I you accorder series petite reduction of taxes and we allons repay a little Act debt . " 
honourable senators , the ACRA is evil conçu . 
we savons that what program not works not ; not essayons therefore not to réparer something something which no fonctionnera not . 
débarrassons - we - fell and remplaçons the example something something which works . 
what program guardian censé fonctionner at the spring . 
we analyzed now fell fall . 
transport farmers to health Saskatchewan emigrate very soon apply prepare yeas the spring . 
the government has overburdened what program Act foot at the spring , business farmers acclaimed fact their request and they attendent always the money . 
what not is not commentator confirms that til réagit at series emergency . 
even series once that what debate fingertips commitments end , I hope that we pourrons the pursue Subcommittee series form or series another until at what that we réussissions at find series solution capable of résoudre at the least few - uns of them problems . 
we pouvons probably travailler davantage together streets our institution that streets not regardless damned another institution policy at the Canada because that we analyzed here yeas long , health health aidant . 
we , the what side - ci of the Senate , savons what that the snakes doit make , and what that the snakes fact currently no marche not . 
we invitons our colleagues on fell opposite at examiner carefully what that fact their government . 
we you prions of ask at your Prime Minister of visiter them provinces of them Prairies and the prendre the time to écouter what that foreign farmers and Oceans representatives of them municipalities and the foreign governments provinciaux acclaimed at say , because that they are more closely the Day population . 
they apply préoccupent of their communities . 
they uncovered can - perhaps Robbie completely the agreement with us yeas say that he rereads has series situation of emergency streets the west of the Canada and that he tangibly there remédier . 
the Honourable Herbert O . Sparrow : 
honourable senators , I voudrais of thanking thank and even congratulate them senators who siègent at the committee of the Agriculture at propos of health Position that they acclaimed défendue at the hook of the world Farm at the surveillance of the year dernière , and certainly auparavant . 
transport senators Spivak , Andreychuk , Gustafson , Hays and Fairbairn acclaimed all contributed to fashion importante at make understand at the government and at all levels Canadians Act crisis that traverse the industry Farm at the Canada , and more particularly fell Saskatchewan , at the Manitoba and fell Alberta . 
permettez - moi of them congratulate , car he not there fingertips can - perhaps not much of other fleurs streets mon intervention . 
i cannot know not too what who faces proceeded when we tenons of them debates of emergency . 
i ignore at which the message is adressé , but the debate not fell remains not least important . 
according a dicton , he not tangibly not try to réparer what who marche well . 
what system not marche not to the everything . 
enough , what is enough . 
we awakened heard parler of plans yeas make rejecting or confirms and the Modified of formulaires . 
nothing not apply proceeded , during that foreign farmers apply acheminent toward Act bankruptcy . 
when the problem has surgi , fell November of the 2000 last , a program has been proposed . 
the senator Carstairs said that toutes them parties apply are entendues and that he rereads has strokes cooperation with them organizations agricultural and Oceans governments . 
he rereads has solemn strokes of them consultations . 
he semblait heard that foreign fund - Government program ACRA petitioners versés very earlier streets Act nouvelle year . 
confirms not apply is not product . 
the senator Carstairs said that everyone the world has coopéré . 
what is faux . 
i ai attended at the foreign meetings with them representatives of the Department of the Agriculture , whose the minister . 
i believe that the program , tel that he has been proposed , guardian excellent and aurait well market . 
when he has finally been rendu public , with them formulaires of the ACRA , he is became obvious that the program not marcherait not . 
he is everything also obvious today today that he not has not market and that he not marchera not . 
when she has seen how the system apply appliquerait at the level of the exploitation and where irait the money , she has retiré his appui . 
not series Gotcha organization Farm of the West - I cannot saurais say what who faces proceeded streets the East - not approuve the program ACRA . 
transport governments provinciaux not acclaimed not rose their agreed . 
the money capitalists perhaps versé at the beginning of the year . 
til has reproché at them governments provinciaux of not not participate . 
til has said that royal Saskatchewan refusait of sign the agreement , but Act province has débloqué ses 200 million for $ and Oceans has overburdened fell contingency blocks January and February 1999 . Elle not has received the agreement yeas Signing that fell June . 
that faisait the Department federal ? 
why the government federal prenait - he activist of time at envoyer a agreed ? 
the money for the government ' health Saskatchewan , authorized 200 million for $ , doit perhaps versé Act series basic of sharing the foreign costs . 
apply he not the is not , what is that the money for the government federal not is not là . 
the time is crucial yeas Act community Farm . 
til can well parler of programs at term term . 
what not guardian not the month last or he rereads has six months . 
attaquons - we at Act crisis . 
cobwebs the money streets them mains of them farmers . 
til parle of funds 1.2 . 
yes , he tangibly of them fund 1.2 , but til can sauver well - Provincial fermes familiales fell dépensant of them fund who acclaimed already been engagés . 
ceux who never are not at the courant of them problems demandent often damned arranged Act durée of the program . 
they veulent savoir if what is series assistance fell series Gotcha once or whether she restera always fell place . 
he is possible that she authorized always necessary . 
if we cannot pouvons fournir the necessary , we devons the say frankly at them farmers Airports and Oceans avertir that he not there fingertips more aucune subvention . 
that they apply retirent dignement . 
donnons - their the money and disons - their that what is fini , but laissons - Provincial apply diriger toward the other activities streets Act collectivité with dignity , without supplier or quêter , without lanced of hunger , without penser at the suicide . 
everyone confirms apply product currently . 
he tangibly regarder them things fell opposite . 
we cannot demandons not during combien of time them prestations of vieillesse uncovered versées . 
we cannot accordons not at them persons seniors of them prestations of vieillesse during a 2000 or two yeas ensuite them their withdraw . 
however , streets the case of the milieu Farm , segment extremely important to our society , we ourselves demandons apply he voudra still the Government money the 2000 next . 
voulons - we series industry Farm at the Canada ? 
he tangibly we decide . 
we analyzed Act the standpoint of abdicate at all these systems Act Act scène international . 
all levels sectors touchés connaîtront , eux also , very soon of them problems . 
confirms not done nil doubt . 
bye what moment - là , we cannot serons more fell measure of subvenir at our needs alimentaires . 
what is the aspect crucial of the problem . 
if we abandonnons them farmers to the West , if we laissons the market international impose ses rules , he remembered fell trouvera yeas say that we devrions also abandonner them farmers to the Quebec and ceux of the Ontario . 
ensuite , he not we restera more than at importer them denrées alimentaires . 
during the foreign years , I ai parcouru the country yeas parler of health conservation of the soil , the Day disparition of health ferme familiale fell reason for the érosion and the Day destruction of health couche arable . 
i the ai fact , because that , fell activist that Nation , we devons power subvenir at our needs alimentaires . 
what is the objective that VI Act community European . 
she insiste yeas power subvenir at ses needs . 
the Canada affirme that he can always importer of them products , but là not is not Act solution . 
we devons perhaps fell measure of subvenir at our needs alimentaires . 
i query that the Honourable Senator Carstairs authorized here . 
she has mentioned at breaching standpoint he is difficult to remplir them formulaires of the ACRA . 
she Partnerships reason . 
he rereads has 45 or 47 pages of instructions who expliquent how remplir a formulaire of seven pages . 
the senator Carstairs has said that we aurions owed embaucher of them students yeas help them farmers at remplir their formulaires . 
the Department of the Agriculture has fourni of the assistance ; the foreign officials are allés streets the west of the Canada yeas explain how remplir them formulaires of the ACRA . 
why not acclaimed - they not simply conçu a formulaire who never is not compliqué ? 
nay , they acclaimed préféré dépenser of them thousands of $ yeas explain what that he fallait make the these 47 pages . 
these formulaires not acclaimed not been envoyés before March or April and they not acclaimed not been diffusés widely . 
transport officials of the Department of the Agriculture me acclaimed said that I pouvais obtain the formulaire Act Internet . 
no are - they ever allés visiter fell Saskatchewan them exploitations agricultural fell difficulty ? 
combien étions - we Robbie Act Internet ? 
i cannot ai not avoided obtain the formulaire . 
finalement , the office of the Department of the Agriculture of ma localité has received two formulaires fell May . 
til fell has done to them photocopies who acclaimed been mises at our provision . 
we discutons currently the what who never tourne not rond streets the sector Farm . 
til we said that foreign farmers inefficaces not acclaimed not their place . 
the minister said that if someone a no arrive not at gagner dapper life streets what sector , he should fell sortir . 
what is là series option , but our farmers not are not inefficaces . 
we ourselves impotent débarrassés of ceux who étaient inefficaces he rereads has 20 or 30 years . 
i ai already said confirms and I the répète still today today . 
commentator the senator Spivak : knows , if we continuons of us débarrasser of ceux that we considérons inefficaces , he not restera that a odyssey farmer . 
we dirons Robbie that he is him also inefficace and we ourselves débarrasserons of him . 
the grandes companies of exploitation Farm uncovered Robbie fell place , thin uncovered fully intégrées , and Oceans farmers auront everything lost . 
fell Saskatchewan , if nothing not loses , streets 20 years , he restera two grandes cities , celles of Saskatoon and the Regina . 
he not restera more of communities rural . 
the foreign small cities acclaimed already disparu and , if nothing not loses , he not fell restera more aucune . 
breaching kind of province , breaching kind of countries laisserait confirms apply produire ? 
what are là them problems that we devons examiner . 
the aucuns veulent that the Prime Minister apply rende fell Saskatchewan yeas constater of visu Act situation . 
he not has not at the make . 
toutes sortes of people the acclaimed already done . 
what not arranged however not suffisant . 
the message complements surely the elsewhere . 
today today , the Leader of the government at the Senate not has ceased of mood what message . 
i regret that he not authorized more here ; he not comprend can - perhaps not Act situation . 
he rereads has a problem , and til apply there attack fell préconisant the inaction . 
til not cesse of say : " On paving make rejecting , til paving make confirms . " 
fell attendant , the problem perdure . 
til parle of health cooperation of them provinces . 
the money that foreign provinces acclaimed accepted the verser at them farmers is là - he suffit of the distribute . 
the minister of the Agriculture not arrête not to say that he rereads has much of money streets the CSRN . 
what is a program auquel contribuent activist the government federal that foreign farmers . 
according them data of the month of August , who are them dernières that we ayons Act the CSRN , 22 40,000 farmers Act 58 40,000 disposent of less of 2 700 Expenditures streets what account . 
confirms not empêche not the minister of say that he rereads has much of money streets the CSRN . 
yeas ceux who are at the bord of health ruine , he not there not to silver . 
he not there has nothing yeas eux . 
bye the 20 October , 6 800 farmers specialist obtenu a payment streets the framework of the program ACRA . 
however , they not are not ceux whose we ourselves inquiétons . 
we ourselves inquiétons des30 40,000 farmers who uncovered ruinés . 
i utilise what figure since a 2000 now . 
or well we perdrons completely these 30 40,000 farmers , or well we perdrons them young farmers who devraient prendre Act relève of them more vieux . 
i urge the Leader of the government at the Senate at porter what message at the government . 
the program that foreign organizations agricultural attendaient not is not gerrymandering who has been overburdened fell implementation . 
what is why thin not the approuvent not . 
til we said that few ajustements there uncovered apportés . 
he is easy to modify the program . 
we pourrions ask simply that he authorized éliminé and remplacé by a nouveau . 
what serait well , except that he particulars wait still a 2000 . 
i cannot veux not confirms . 
modifions the program fell place and versons the money at them farmers . 
he rereads has a 1.1 of $ . 
versons - Government at them farmers . 
we ourselves inquiéterons after confirms of find the foreign fund 1.2 apply he fell tangibly . 
aidons them farmers at them prises with the foreign difficulties . 
the Honourable Ron Ghitter : 
honourable senators , everything of thanking , I tiens at thank His Honour the Speaker of wheel licences Act tenue of our debate . 
what is a debate important . 
i brevity all ceux who acclaimed commitments Act parole until at now . 
no connaissant nothing to health life streets series exploitation Farm , I ai much learned bearer after - afternoon . 
the intervention of the senator Sparrow has been excellente . 
he and the other also acclaimed said much of them things that I voulais say . 
i interviens what night at title of citadin , but the Albertain , therefore , something a yeas who the debate prend series coloration a little différente . 
commentator the has said : Senator Andreychuk , he tangibly understand that what who is bon yeas the Ontario not is not necessarily bon yeas the Alberta or health Saskatchewan . Changes contextes economic and demographics are différents . 
transport populations are différentes . 
health proximité of them markets not is not Act same non more streets these provinces . 
by conséquent , account tenu of them figures entendus today today , til not can not say that what who is bon yeas the Canada fera necessarily vibrer series corde sensible fell Saskatchewan or at the Manitoba , where they not acclaimed not them resources , health population , health strength economic or the power to the Alberta when he remembered notional of venir fell assistance at them farmers . 
til can make say at somewhat close what that the snakes wants at them figures . 
i cannot ai not the intent of me lancer streets of them querelles of figures . 
we awakened all seen these figures . 
if we voulons make implementation useful , he tangibly of thanking respond at few questions fondamentales . 
everyone the world here répondra : " Bien course that yes ! " 
however , he rereads has the foreign regions at the Canada , fell particular fell Alberta , who seem indiquer that the époque of health ferme familiale hook at dapper end . 
he is easy to romancer Act ferme familiale . 
he is easy to parler of the standpoint of standpoint of health collectivité . 
transport senators Tkachuk , Spivak and Sparrow acclaimed spoke of the importance of health ferme familiale yeas our communities . 
they acclaimed spoke of the sentiment that she crée chez them people . 
they acclaimed spoke of the sentiment of proximité and the appartenance at Act collectivité that til not has not fell city . 
they acclaimed spoke of the apport if important to health ferme familiale at them fondements and at Act culture of our country . 
the senator Spivak has said that royal ferme familiale guardian at the Alberta and at them Prairies what that royal language can represent yeas the Quebec , what that foreign Forestry représentent yeas Act British - British and what that foreign fisheries représentent yeas them Canadians to the Atlantic . 
ses comparaisons are everything at fact justes . 
she paving right at the heart of the existence and the Day perpétuation of everyone what who we regardless , at us who venons of them Prairies . 
when someone a request if health ferme familiale has yet dapper place at l' ère of health mondialisation , the foreign grandes companies and the Day rationalisation , I réponds yes . 
health ferme familiale has yet series place very importante . 
she fact part intégrante of the tissu Housing of our country . 
she is whether importante that we cannot pouvons not Act laisser disparaître and losing analyzed something something of whether profondément enraciné streets our society . 
if we reconnaissons the importance of ensure Act survival of them communities rural of our country , somewhat regardless what that royal ferme familiale can represent yeas various persons , she has need to series something . 
commentator blunt congruent , that what authorized streets the sector of them fisheries or streets the sector pétrolier and gazier , he tangibly series something yeas survivre fell Affairs . 
all levels people of affairs you diront that unabated something , what is Act stability . 
if series congruent not has not to stability , the prévisibilité or a sense of health planning who him gives series idea of what who faces passera the year suivante , she arranged always fell difficulty . 
she arranged always streets the uncertainty and not fell finira never the aller ask the Government assistance at Act banque . 
without stability , til seems always fell train of mendier . 
i believe that , since toutes them years that I am fell policy , business farmers not acclaimed never bénéficié of aucune stability . 
commentator the has said : Senator Taylor , he rereads has strokes fell Alberta - Provincial programs who acclaimed fonctionné . 
he rereads has strokes series basic assurée and a filet of security auxquels them farmers acclaimed avoided recourir yeas affronter the mauvais time and toutes them other things with lesquelles they repositories composer . 
however , they not acclaimed never strokes Act stability who their aurait licences of planifier and the continue at us fournir them products which are tellement importants and précieux yeas we . 
the foreign stakeholders acclaimed spoke today today to revisiter Act question BNA . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate has said that foreign provinces repositories make something something . 
we awakened heard confirms tellement often . 
til we said that what is their fault . 
i pourrais réciter at them senators series list that the foreign Members provinciaux of the Manitoba acclaimed lue when they acclaimed presented their instances at the committee Standing of the Agriculture and the Government agroalimentaire of health House of them Commons . 
he remembered notional of two pages of programs whose the government federal apply is retiré and the cuts faites at the foreign programs touchant the Agriculture , and I dissenting say today today that foreign provinces retirent of them fund . 
health pauvre petite province of health Saskatchewan withdrew of the money for the assistance at them farmers . 
the government ' health Saskatchewan not has not them afford to fournir of the assistance at them farmers , Robbie the government federal said that royal Saskatchewan is censée contributing 40p. cent of the program of assistance and that commentator she never the has not done , the government federal not has not at make whereupon that what authorized . 
what is the Day dérobade . 
what is unacceptable . 
he is unacceptable that foreign leaders political , provinciaux or fédéraux , disent that confirms not is not their responsibility . 
what is Act responsibility to everyone the world . 
tandis that we jetons series poignée of $ here and là , health life Farm streets what country paving fell apply amenuisant and health crisis continues . 
the most fell more of exploitations are saisies , the most fell more of exploitations disparaissent and the most fell more of young apply fell submariners . 
toutes them things that we awakened entendues today today are réelles and vitales . 
thin apply produisent streets our country . 
transport people parlent vaguement of the problem , they not apply there attaquent not really . 
they not veulent not apply lancer streets series War of them figures . 
confirms not réglera nothing . 
we awakened need to a government which aille au - appeared of them farmers and their move a plan at term term yeas their ensure Act stability during that he lobbyist with them provinces . 
honourable senators , what not is not nouveau . 
confirms not date not to yesterday . 
streets them years 70 , I faisais part of the government albertain and what guardian the same kind of discussions , the same sentiment . 
the way générale , til tenait yeas responsible the government federal or telle human . 
and streets the intervalle , he rereads has the least fell less of farmers . 
transport problems acclaimed been exacerbés , and we voilà plongés streets series crisis . 
i estimated that we ourselves trouvons streets series situation very sérieuse at the Canada rural , mostly streets them Prairies . 
he not suffit more than the Prime Minister veterinary them premiers ministers chez eux fell their disant : " Ne you inquiétez not , a another committee fixera them figures . " 
he is perhaps - perhaps too later . 
he particulars of emergency adopt the foreign measures ponctuelles , the time that the foreign plans at term term grab the day . 
unfortunately , nothing not is done fell what sense . 
til apply veterinary Act balle and til apply book at series bataille of figures . 
human not complements apporter of them solutions yeas ensure Act stability of unabated industry . 
if what is what that he tangibly make , allons of the prior with confirms . 
yesterday , Rand Martin not has same not évoqué Act situation Farm when he parlait of them forecasts Projections and the what that he convenait of make with the se - disant surplus . 
that fell is - he streets their case ? 
why not parlons - we not to agriculture ? 
why rejetons - we always Act responsibility Act something a result another and not cynicism - we nothing yeas corriger Act situation ? 
honourable senators , he is time to favouring a climate of stability . 
transport farmers the deserve . 
if we croyons really at the importance of health collectivité rurale , we devons Robbie make something something yeas him venir fell assistance . 
he is time to cesser of parler . 
he is time to commencer at make Evidence of leadership . 
he is time to offer series certaine stability at them farmers to the Canada . 
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn : 
honourable senators I thank also Act Ruling - wheel convenu that he remembered agissait là of a topic apply prêtant at a debate on emergency and I thank mon ami the senator Gustafson of wheel seen at what that he authorized abordé . 
what not is not a debate at the topic of them statistics . 
what is a debate regarding Casual difficulties auxquelles Cutbacks opposite today today them particuliers , business families and Oceans children and Convey Act them perspectives of future . 
he existe of them perspectives of future Act them plans to health stability streets the sector Farm and the foreign débouchés Act them markets mondiaux . 
i ai listened all levels orateurs . 
all acclaimed évoqué with more or less of vigueur the problem and Oceans factors who we réunissent here bearer after - afternoon yeas parler of them farmers . 
i ai fell particular listened with bienveillance the intervention of the senator Gustafson . 
what is loin of Welfare Act first once that I tuned the senator Gustafson . 
i ai the privilege of sit at the committee sénatorial of the Agriculture , that he préside with much of habileté and the heart . 
yeas ceux of between you who never admits not the functioning Internal of the Senate , what is a place where the foreign people partageant of them points of standpoint political différents arresting apply adhere and apply make the foreign friends that they garderont long . 
these individuals arresting also partager and partagent solemn of profondes concerns regarding the foreign problems which affectent Act life and the course - perhaps the foreign citizens , breaching that authorized the place where they vivent at the country . 
what is without doubt là a result them points forts them less well connus of the Senate to the Canada . 
honourable senators , nil Quebecer of the west of the Canada , particularly ceux of them summarizing sectors agricultural of unabated region , not can ignorer Act douleur and the insécurité ressenties by foreign people of them communities and the foreign families agricultural and the foreign small cities rural and the all ceux who essaient of mener of them Affairs streets these gloomy by time durs , who repositories supporter them extrêmes of température , business inondations , health sécheresse , business diseases and Oceans pressure of the trade international who entraînent Act chute of them price of them meilleurs products of the world opposite at the octroi massif of subsidies streets of other countries . 
the committee of the Agriculture has heard from them testimony and the foreign stories fell provenance of all levels sectors of unabated industry Robbie that he travaillait at Act preparedness of a report at the intent of the government Act them messages that the Canada should transmettre at them prochaines negotiations Act the trade outside who faces tiendront at Seattle . 
our report , entitled : " Position voie at suivre : 
transport priorities yeas the Agriculture canadienne and health ronde of the millennium " , referme of importantes recommendations fell standpoint of them prochaines negotiations which repositories perhaps businesses more later at the surveillance of the month . 
but the most important is that he has been rose at composite of between us to hear parler of them difficulties and the foreign opportunities for the sector , when we étions Act the terrain , streets the West Heritage , perhaps non not streets them wards of meeting of them committees here , at Ottawa , but streets our propres towns , streets our propres provinces . 
we awakened listened Act population . 
we awakened regardé right streets them yeux of ceux who éprouvent of sérieuses difficulties fell reason for circumstances that they not contrôlent absolument not . 
bye the surveillance of them months écoulés , I ai visited toutes them provinces of the West . 
i me am entretenue with a grandfather number of operators agricultural - sometimes fell company of colleagues , sometimes Gotcha , notamment streets the south - west of the Alberta whose I am issue . 
series something is certaine , and what is that fell Saskatchewan , he has longuement been question of them dégâts causés by foreign pluies Act them Lands agricultural of the south - is the Day province , and the Government south - west of the Manitoba also . 
i ai spoke at the foreign farmers who faces there are repris at two once yeas ensemencer their lands , yeas see Act pluie ruiner their efforts . 
these individuals acclaimed of very graves difficulties Projections . 
health harvest arranged inexistante , and Oceans jobs are introuvables . 
some senators well installés streets the confort douillet of unabated enceinte not apply rendent not account that the fact of posséder series earth , that celle - ci produise or not , prive these farmers to the right to percevoir them indemnités of the course - perhaps Housing ; these people apply demandent how they submariners make yeas subvenir at them needs of their family . 
the foreign senators ' toutes them allégeances acclaimed rencontré Act week dernière them members of delegations of health Saskatchewan and the Government Manitoba , venues at Ottawa solliciter of them financements transitoires yeas help them farmers at traverser them prochaines years at the bout desquelles he is at espérer that , lors of them negotiations commerciales , health Senators ' health reason prévaudra , the same that royal good volonté and health bienveillance . 
they we acclaimed said at breaching standpoint the Program of assistance fell case of catastrophe liée at the Income Farm not donnait not them results escomptés by the government federal and by ses partners of them governments provinciaux . 
i voudrais identifier certaines of them persons who are venues here Act week dernière . 
thin not représentent that series part of health delegation . 
we awakened heard Leon Lueke , the Government Association of them producers of porc of health Saskatchewan ; Albert Wagner , the Government Pro - West Rally Group ; Noreen Johns , series wife passionnée and profondément inquiète , the Government Saskatchewan Women' Maclean Agricultural Network ; Don Dewar , the foreign Keystone Agricultural Producers ; Goerge Groeneveld , the Agricore ; Wayne Motherall , the Government Association of them municipalities of the Manitoba , who rest usually at the gap of what kind of dossiers , but commentator them small cities éprouvent of them difficulties , business grandes cities viennent at Act rescousse . 
we awakened spoke at Clay Serby , Minister of them Foreign municipales , the Day Culture and the Government Logement of health Saskatchewan ; at Duane Lingenfelter , Vice - Prime Minister and Minister of the Agriculture ; and at Ms Donna Harpauer , députée of the Saskatchewan Party . 
the Government Manitoba , we awakened spoke at the Opposition of the Party Liberal , Jon Gerrard , who is a vieil ami since the époque where he siégeait commentator MP at Act House of them Commons . 
he is clear that we , who devons parler at the name of unabated region here , not devrions not allegiances the accent sideshow Act Act War of figures whose acclaimed fact the objet them discussions which apply are tenues Act week dernière . 
we cannot devons not we laisser distraire of what who is really important , what is - at - say everything allegiances fell 9uvre yeas help them farmers fell difficulty . 
honourable senators , I believe that we aurons series response , and that we the aurons very soon , what who we permettra of modify them programs fell vigueur , the débloquer of them fund , the heed account the Government standpoint of standpoint of them farmers who acclaimed said that the amount of 900 40,000 Expenditures guardian apprécié , but that he not arrivait not enough vite and that he not guardian not attribué of health way Act more useful . 
we devons réagir at confirms , honourable senators , and I am certaine that we allons the make . 
i think that the foreign ajustements , the foreign changes and the foreign commitments uncovered nécessaires yeas that foreign programs fonctionnent . 
til apply is much asked today today if someone a apply preoccupation of the problem . 
we devons we ask if the country is became insensible at his past and at his présent at the standpoint of ignorer what who faces proceeded , not streets them circles fell standpoint , not at Act television all levels soirs , not streets them grands centres urbains , but streets certaines of them more grandes étendues of our country that we cannot échangerions yeas nothing at the world . 
voilà why we cannot pouvons never abandonner our farmers . 
yes , we ourselves sentons really concernés . 
streets the world of today today , we savons that the Agriculture is series of them industries them more fragiles and that he rereads has emergency . 
i the ai said , the minister of the Agriculture paving apporter of them changes very quickly car , honourable senators , we cannot voulons not that disparaisse what mode of life who has been décrit today today . 
we voulons the préserver . 
we voulons multiplier them opportunities yeas them farmers , not yeas them multinationales . 
we voulons strengthen them links between them towns rural car thin are the soul of our regions and the our country . 
i viens of series merveilleuse petite city who faces appelle Lethbridge . 
i the aime much , but I aime also them small cities who are éparpillées streets them zones rural who the entourent and whose she hook dapper strength - Request them cities commentator Coaldale , Picture Butte , Stirling , Taber , Warner , Raymond , Magrath , Cardston , Stand Off , streets Act contingency of them Gens - du - Sang , and Fort MacLeod , where tellement of things rappellent the history of health RCMP , and streets them mountains , au - delà of them cols , Pincher Creek , and Brocket streets Act contingency of them Péganes . 
what are them foyers of health puissance Farm Act unabated earth whose I am issue and where ma grandfather - mother and mon grandfather - father étaient pionniers . 
he vaut Act peine of apply arrêter sometimes yeas penser at what that guardian the Canada là - bas at the beginning of the century . 
he not there Partnerships not to buildings anguishes of usines . 
he rereads Partnerships of them fermes and the foreign people courageux flocked by smaller groups of all levels coins of the world . 
health family of ma mother is venue of the cratère of poussière of the Iowa , cherchant at improve his fate , and apply is installée , Senator Gustafson , nearly of North Battleford , fell Saskatchewan , where ma mother is Manitoulin . 
what is Act basic of our country . 
today today , authorized a century later later , we pouvons communiquer , thanks at Act technology and at the informatique , but , at the fond , despite them distances , business residents of these small cities tiennent really at see their semblables , at their parler and at them écouter . 
what is at ses risks and périls that the oublie gerrymandering who them represents at the Breast of series assemblée legislative , where that what authorized at the Canada . 
fell the oubliant , til risk of briser the unity of our country . 
transport persons tiennent at perhaps liées . 
little regardless Act gloire that apporte Act technology , she never remplace guère the link between them persons . 
commentator I the ai said at the beginning , honourable senators , the debate on what night door really Act them persons . 
despite the scepticisme of some of condolences vis - at - vis and the condolences colleagues , I believe firmly that foreign persons repositories wheel Act first considération and health priority of the government and the Government Prime Minister . 
the government and the Prime Minister agiront . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , before that we cannot entendions the Honourable Senator Gustafson , I veux specifying that the rules not said nothing to what who faces proceeded at 18 hours streets the framework of a debate on emergency . 
whereupon that he fell authorized , I ai jugé that the sénat souhaitait that I cannot me preoccupation not to the horloge and I cannot ai therefore not interrompu the Honourable Senator Fairbairn . 
i guess that you souhaitez that I cannot me preoccupation not to the hour ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson : 
honourable senators , I serai bref . 
i veux everything of thanking thank His Honour the wheel licences Act tenue of what debate . 
i think that what is series decision admirable . 
i veux also thank them senators ' Affairs two sides . 
what is series journée where I am proud of the Senate car I think that we commençons at accomplir the work which should perhaps fact streets unabated enceinte . 
commentator of them stakeholders of them two sides the acclaimed précisé , our community Farm is confrontée at a very grave problem . 
he rereads has strokes of them malentendus , but them members of the committee of the Agriculture savent , and I irai until là , that the government not guardian not totalement at remiss streets Act Presented of the program ACRA . 
except mistake , what is at Act Federation of the Agriculture that til doit , fell fact , what program . 
til the has overburdened fell place Act the moment yeas make opposite at the problem streets the sector of the porc . 
transport porcs apply vendaient at Torquay , fell Saskatchewan , 10 Expenditures pièce . 
however , confirms not has not fonctionné yeas the rest of the Canada and yeas them céréaliers . 
what program not has absolument not fonctionné and doit therefore perhaps changed . 
honourable senators , health Saskatchewan not has not the assiette fiscale voulue yeas partager Act facture streets series proportion of 40,000 - 60 . 
i vais perhaps franc . 
the Alberta has the money necessary and perhaps adhere what criterion . 
she is heureuse of the make and the payer davantage . 
transport farmers albertains obtiendront more , but that arrive he Robbie fell Saskatchewan ? 
the most , he has been question of health neglect of the government dd . 
he the has been . 
he has balanced his budget at the détriment of them farmers . 
he has utilisé our payments at the subheading of the program RARB . 
the Alberta has hits 58 40,000 Expenditures by farmer at the surveillance of health dernière year where them payments at the subheading of the RARB acclaimed been versés , the Manitoba 43 40,000 Expenditures and yeas ma share , I ai received series facture of 320 Expenditures yeas mon exploitation Farm . 
quiconque said that confirms not fingertips not to consequences has wrongly . 
we parlons currently the mistakes commises by the past , and we cannot pouvons not them laisser apply repeat . 
the Agriculture is series industry importante yeas the Canada . 
mon grandfather - father apply is établi fell Saskatchewan fell 1905 . 
they not acclaimed everything simply not the money yeas them payer . 
we devons prendre certaines decisions and , commentator the has déclaré the senator Sparrow , thin repositories perhaps prises quickly , because that royal period of ensemencement arrivera vite . 
when til apply entretient with the foreign farmers and the foreign groups agricultural , that disent - they ? 
they demandent what that they devraient make now . 
health issue is the savoir combien of farmers pourront ensemencer . 
health situation is very démoralisante . 
confirms payait at peine the carburant necessary yeas expédier Act harvest . 
unabated scène apply répète at the infini . 
transport récoltes of some farmers are gelées . 
they obtiennent 88 cents yeas of the Wheat gelé . 
the foreign farmers reçoivent 2,05 Expenditures yeas a bushel of wheat durum , Robbie that their confrères trillion are assurés of fell obtain 5,50 Expenditures the bushel . 
how submariners - they survivre ? 
nay , they not the feront not . 
a result them grands problems which existent currently streets the world , what is that foreign country which acclaimed need to them denrées alimentaires not acclaimed not to silver . 
bye series époque , the Canada Partnerships of them steamship pleins of wheat who quittaient Vancouver yeas apply tribute fell Russia , Robbie that they not specialist same never been demandés . 
they étaient simply envoyés là - bas , and Oceans Russes achetaient what Wheat . 
today today , health Russia not has more a dime . 
she never gave not to silver yeas purchase of the Wheat . 
the minister of the Agriculture of health Russia has comparu appeared the committee sénatorial and we the has said stares . 
i pourrais appoint the other countries streets Act same situation . 
the problem is Whalers . 
i hope that til fera Evidence of meaning commun at them rencontres at Seattle , who débuteront the 29 November and apply poursuivront until at the 4 December , yeas tenter of régler what problem Whalers . 
the most important , what is that the government and the Parliament of the Canada apply occupent of what problem Whalers very important . 
we connaissons all of them country which no acclaimed not them afford to purchase of health nourriture , but who petitioners happy to manger apply they disposaient of these foods . 
he remembered notional of a grave problem . 
he is very triste that , with them resources and health machinerie nécessaires yeas produire commentator never auparavant , we cannot ayons not suffisamment of bon sense policy yeas nourrir a world who has hunger . 
human not arrive at understand confirms . 
a certain number of senators acclaimed quoted the foreign figures . 
prenons by example the seigle . 
i am teetotaliste , but I vais examiner what that rapportent them taxes Act the whisky at basic of seigle : 79 cents the bushel . 
he rereads has also the barley , the Wheat , and cetera . 
is - what important yeas the Canada ? 
Ça the is , according moi . 
i brevity them senators présents here today today . 
composite of us has a role at play . 
we devons construire a meilleur Canada , and we allons the make . 
yeas finishing , honourable senators , I gives notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 4 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Senate recommends at the government ' s Canada ' accorder immediately 1,3 1.1 of $ at them farmers to the West , commentator the acclaimed asked them premiers ministers of unabated region . 
unabated assistance should parvenir at them farmers by the intermédiaire of health Commission canadienne of the Wheat , Subcommittee form of a payment at the acre . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
hon. Senator Gustafson , I ai the regret to you inform that I cannot dispel not accept a notice of Motion at what moment - ci , except apply he rereads has consent unanimous . 
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin : 
no awakened - we not suspendu Act postponement ? 
he remembered notional of a debate Special who never allows Act Presented of aucune motion . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
i cannot dispel accept a notice of Motion that if the senator Gustafson request the consent unanimous . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
we awakened asked Act leave . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I believe that he rereads has the foreign considérations who deserve reflection . 
everyone of thanking , health motion whose the senator Gustafson voudrait give notice introduces of them Estimates , and I me request if confirms is recevable . 
the senator Gustafson : 
what is series recommendation . 
the senator Hays : 
the most , I believe understand that the debate on emergency apply accompagne of series motion of adjournment and that , when the Honourable Senator Gustafson reprendra dapper place , the debate arranged adjourned . 
i me interroge by conséquent Act Act recevabilité of a notice of Motion during a debate on emergency . 
the senator Kinsella : 
refusez - you Act leave ? 
the senator Hays : 
solemn . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
the notice of Motion not is not accepted . 
honourable senators , he is proposed by the Honourable Senator Gustafson , with the appui of the senator Cohen , that the Senate apply ajourne . 
bye them termes of the alinéa 61 ( 3 ) has ) the Government Rules , health motion is adoptée of office . 
i quitte therefore the fauteuil yeas the reprendre at 14 hours tomorrow . 
( the Senate apply ajourne at 14 hours tomorrow . ) 
debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
2e Session , Session Session , 
volume 138 , Issue 6 
the Thursday 4 November 1999 
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker 
table of them Contents 
STATEMENTS STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
the Late deM. AntHony Gustave Vincent 
tribute 
health Seconde Guerre World 
the cinquante - fifth anniversary of health bataille of the golfe of the Saint - Lawrence 
health Court Supreme 
health appointment of the Honourable Beverley McLachlin at the station of Justice fell Opposition 
the day to the Souvenir 
the Late of Greg Moore 
tribute 
the Jour of the Souvenir 
health Second Guerre World 
the cinquante - fifth anniversary of health bataille of the golfe of the Saint - Lawrence 
health Court Supreme 
health appointment of the Honourable Beverley McLachlin at the station of Justice fell Opposition 
dapper closure possible by the government ontarien 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
the adjournment 
health Act Act Act defence national Position Act Act the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques Le Code criminal 
bill to Bill Amend - Première Reading 
the Code criminal 
bill to Bill Amend - Première Reading 
the Association Parliamentary canadienne of the NATO 
health situation of them aboriginal and their future 
notice of inquiry 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
health defence national 
the replacement of them helicopters Sea King 
health possibility of transférer them investigations Act them accidents at the Bureau of health safety of them transport 
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire 
health possibility of a fund - transition yeas them farmers who désirent changer of profession 
health request for a program of maintien of them farmers Act their lands 
the Program of assistance fell case of catastrophe liée at the Income Farm - Ex allocation of funds additional - Request for clarification of health statement of the minister 
health request for assistance financière fell favour of them déshydrateurs of luzerne 
transport fisheries and Oceans océans 
transport provinces maritimes - Possibility decision to health Court Supreme confirmant them rights of fishery aboriginal - Comments effects Act the economy locale 
health possibility of a fond of transition yeas them fishermen voulant changer of profession 
orders OF THE 
transport travaux of the Senate 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
second reading - Adjourned of the debate 
health Act Act the casier judicial 
bill to Bill Amend - Second Reading - Adjourned of the debate 
the Comité of selection 
passage of the fourth report 
transport Canadians éminents and their role at the Kingdom - Kingdom 
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate 
routine Foreign 
Authorized at the committee of retenir of them services 
the SENATE 
the Thursday 4 November 1999 
health postponement is ouverte at 14 hours , the Speaker étant at the fauteuil . 
prayers . 
the Late deM. Anthony Gustave Vincent 
tribute 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I cannot ai learned that evening the Late of the former ambassador Anthony Vincent . 
i know that several honourable senators ' acclaimed connu . 
Koppel . Vincent is born fell England . 
he has terminé ses studies at them States - U.S. and he is entré streets what who faces appelait Robbie the Department of them Foreign extérieures , fell activist that diplomat . 
he has accompli series career remarkable who the has conduit streets the world entier , ses dernières affectations rose been the Spain and Andorre , where he fut our ambassador . 
he has also been our haut - Commissioner at the Bangladesh and our ambassador fell Burma . 
he has oeuvré streets them missions Forces at Position Haye and at York Delhi . 
but what is at the époque where he has been our ambassador at the Pérou that he is became a heroes . 
fell 1996 , Rand Vincent has played a role majeur lors of health prise of otages at Act residence of the Ambassador of the Japan at Lima . 
we croyons that ses actions acclaimed licences of sauver several vies . 
he has received Act Médaille of the service méritoire of health Gouverneure générale yeas dapper contribution extraordinary at Act resolution of unabated crisis . 
he guardian a heroes bienveillant and modest and a fonctionnaire estimé of the Canada . 
he has témoigné of the role important that the Canada can play streets Act quête of a world more stable and meilleur . 
honourable senators , I voudrais me join at the very hon. Prime Minister and at the minister of them Foreign Foreign yeas introduce our condolences at Act family deM. Vincent , notamment at his wife Lucie and at dapper daughter Alexandra . 
health Seconde Guerre World 
the cinquante - fifth anniversary of health bataille of the golfe of the Saint - Lawrence 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , I voudrais today today tribute tribute at all levels Canadians , ceux who vivent still and ceux who we acclaimed quittés , who acclaimed served our country Subcommittee them flags . 
i veux also adresser a merci very special at them Canadians who servent now at the abroad streets the framework of missions of maintien of health peace . 
bearer after - afternoon , I tiens at parler specifically to health bataille of the golfe of the Saint - Lawrence , unabated étendue of water who offers the very beaux panoramas at the Quebec , at the Brunswick - Brunswick , streets the Île - du - Prince Edward Édouard , fell Nova Scotia Nova , at Newfoundland - Newfoundland and at the Labrador . 
what is series voie navigable at the intérieur of the Canada at the hour actuelle , and the nombreux Canadians arresting penser that confirms has always been the case , but fell 1942 , what are them Subcommittee - submarines of the Germany nazie who there régnaient fell maîtres . 
what morning , Subcommittee them auspices of our bienveillant Speaker , we awakened attended at series ceremony streets unabated enceinte yeas commémorer Act bataille of the golfe of the Saint - Lawrence of 1942 at 1944 . 
yeas them puristes , well heard , seuls two ships acclaimed been perdus after 1942 , business two fell 1944 , and he remembered notional therefore the Government cinquante - fifth anniversary , but yeas Act plupart of between us who familiar can - perhaps better the history navale , health bataille of the golfe apply is déroulée , fell fact , fell 1942 . 
honourable senators , health ceremony of what morning , présidée by His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale of the Canada , guardian chaleureuse and appropriée and we avions Incidence we a grandfather number of submarines of health Shipping Shipping canadienne who acclaimed combattu streets these waters yeas defend our country . 
transport Subcommittee - submarines allemands acclaimed trouvé that foreign convois who traversaient the Atlantic étaient relatively well protected fell 1942 , at Act subsequently of the entrée fell War of them Americans and they acclaimed Robbie decided to apply attaquer at them voies navigables coastal of the America of the North yeas find the foreign proies more faciles durant what that foreign équipages of them Subcommittee - submarines allemands appelaient " justice season of whaling américaine " or " justice belle époque " . 
honourable senators , business Subcommittee - submarines allemands acclaimed coulé fell six months the term of health Coast of the America of the North of them ships representative 2.5 million for tonnes of marchandises . 
transport seven premiers months of 1942 acclaimed almost coûté Act War at them Alliés . 
til said that foreign Subcommittee - submarines allemands specialist tellement the choice of them cibles that they not rentraient at the Port that because that they not specialist more of torpilles . 
Robbie that royal bataille of the Atlantic faisait rage fell upper sea , business Subcommittee - submarines allemands acclaimed succeeded at apply glisser streets the golfe of the Saint - Lawrence , often fell standpoint of them coasts , at Act research of ships marchands without escorte . 
fell May 1942 , health bataille of the golfe commençait . 
the U - boot allemand U - 553 guardian repéré at the large of the cap Ray Robbie that he accomplissait dapper first patrouille . 
bye the surveillance of them five months who suivirent , 21 steamship devaient perhaps coulés and few 200 submarines killed . 
fell 1944 , two ships of war étaient coulés and someone 91 persons tuées . 
the Prime , what fut the ship at steamship Nicoya - Government Prime bateau coulé streets them waters intérieures of the Canada by , I ajouterai , the foreign forces hostiles since Act War of 1812 . 
unfortunately , what not capitalists not perhaps the last . 
the NCSM Racoon , a bâtiment armé , guardian coulé by the U - boot U - 165 the 6 September 1942 , and health corvette NCSM Charlottetown by the U - boot U - 517 only five days later later . 
the 14 October , what guardian Act tragedy yeas the traversier Caribou , who assurait Act Liaison between Act part continentale of the Canada and Newfoundland - Newfoundland . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
senator Forrestall , I regret to duty you interrupt , but Act period of three minutes that you aviez yeas make your statement has expiré . 
the senator Forrestall : 
i am course that foreign honourable senators admits that what are the foreign Canadians auxquels we rendons tribute today today . 
health Court Supreme 
health appointment of the Honourable Beverley McLachlin at the station of Justice fell Opposition 
the Honourable Joan Fraser : 
honourable senators , I voudrais make few remarques at the topic of the announcement introductory yesterday according laquelle the next Justice fell Opposition of health Court Supreme of the Canada arranged Ms Act Justice Beverley McLaghlin . 
i think that all levels Canadians apply are réjouis of unabated nouvelle and I believe that foreign women étaient particularly remplies of joie - Government expression not is not too damned - at the announcement of dapper appointment . 
what is Act first woman at preoccupation the station of Justice fell Opposition of our Court Supreme . 
what who we réjouit mostly , what is that she never gave not been nommée at what station because that what guardian series wife , but fell reason for his excellence . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the senator Fraser : 
what is series Canadienne quintessencielle . 
perhaps - til perhaps more Quebecer that something a who is born at Pincher Creek , fell Alberta ? 
she has been admise at the Bar albertain fell 1969 and she has done at somewhat close everything what that he is possible for make streets the system legal Heritage . 
she has pratiqué the right streets a cabinet private of 1969 at 1975 . 
she has enseigné the right at the University of health British - British of 1974 at 1981 , puis , fell 1981 , she has débuté at the bas of health hiérarchie of health magistrature , at Act cour of comté of Vancouver . 
she never is not restée very long fell bas of the échelle . 
he rereads has ten years , fell 1989 , she has been nommée at Act Court Supreme of the Canada parM. Mulroney , Robbie Prime Minister - Government series of them meilleures decisions that he ait prises , oserais - I say . 
Mrs. Act Justice McLachlin apply is révélée difficult at cataloguer , what who is series something rare . 
he not has not been possible , even at them commentateurs heavily portés Act them questions idéologiques , the Day classer commentator appartenant at series école judicial or at series another since the announcement introductory yesterday . 
everyone the world has simply avoided say that she guardian a judge hors pair , doté of a wit formidable and independent , who never between well heard streets aucune of them catégories préétablies . 
the one of them commentaires them more intéressants that til ait facts Act she is gerrymandering of the chairman of the Association of the Bar Heritage , who has déclaré : " Elle possède unabated volonté canadienne of make them things , the décomposer them problems fell grandchildren problems and the run allegiances at them résoudre . " 
well that I cannot sois not jurist , I ai owed mood not evil of years at lire of them recueils of jurisprudence and I dois say that , fell activist that ancienne journalist , I me extasie also fell constatant that we awakened a judge fell Opposition who Turcot Act good tradition of rédiger of them judgments of series way simple and claire . 
he is important yeas them citizens of our country of power understand what that their said Act Court Supreme and , when Ms Act Justice McLachlin wrote , he not done nil doubt that til comprend what that she said and why . 
she has also said recently appeared the Bar Heritage , and I quote : 
the Parliament , with ses meilleurs outils of découverte of them facts , with a meilleur access at them opinions , at the information , is the place on most approprié yeas Act prise of decisions of Nature policy , " au sense noble " . 
what is very important , I fell am certaine . 
the day to the Souvenir 
the Honourable Norman K . Atkins : 
honourable senators , commentator you the savez , the foreign ceremonies auront instead the 11 November next yeas tribute tribute at our Veterans Veterans and other personnels military . 
we espérons that the Canada and the world entier jouiront of series peace and the genus freedom relatives at the surveillance of the century who commence . 
i query today today tribute tribute at all these Canadians who acclaimed fact of grands sacrifices at the name of health freedom . 
i ai moi - even some links with Act Première Guerre World . 
mon father has done part of the corps expéditionnaire Heritage , the 46e Régiment of health Batterie of health Queen , who has commitments share at Act fameuse bataille of the plateau of Vimy , who has strokes lieule 9 April 1917 . 
the most , at the University Acadia where I ai examined , he rereads Partnerships series residence Act the campuses , health maison Willett , where apply trouvait a salon who Partnerships been baptisé the Milton Gregg Lounge , fell the honour to the one of them soldiers Airports them more connus and Oceans more braves . 
Milton Gregg fut the one of them 19 Canadians at apply perhaps seen décerner Act Cross of Victoria , that he has méritée at Cambrai , fell France , at the surveillance of health week of the 28 September at the 1er October 1918 . 
he is triste of penser that foreign rangs of them Veterans Veterans of health Première Guerre World , the Day Seconde Guerre World and the Day War of Korea apply éclaircissent little at somewhat . 
the afternoon them figures établis fell March last by the Department of them Veteran Veterans , he remains only 669 Veterans Veterans of health Première Guerre World , 390 230 of health Seconde Guerre World and 17 783 of health War of Korea . 
he we incombe of honorer these Canadians to sorte that their sacrifices and their exploits demeurent always streets Act memory of them Canadians . 
i veux parler a instant of them men and the foreign women of them Forces Forces who servent vaillamment their countries today today , that what authorized here at the Canada or fell mission of maintien of health peace at the abroad . 
too often , we oublions of manifester our appréciation and our gratitude loyalty our vaillants military fell service active . 
they acclaimed mérité maintes and maintes once our respect and we devons find the foreign façons of their montrer that we ourselves soucions of eux . 
honourable senators , at all these Canadians who are always vivants and at ceux who are décédés , we exprimons our éternelle gratitude and we perpétuons their souvenir . 
the Honourable Calvin Woodrow Ruck : 
honourable senators , I prends moi also Act parole at the opportunity to the day to the Souvenir . 
i request humblement that fell observant the Jour of the Souvenir , you you rappeliez that we , business minorities at the Canada , awakened we also served our country and that we analyzed loans at the serve still at well - Provincial égards at the future . 
we analyzed loans at make opposite at blunt éventualité afin of préserver them principles démocratiques that illustre our country . 
the Late of Greg Moore 
tribute 
the Honourable GerrySt. Germain : 
honourable senators , I prends today today Act parole yeas tribute tribute at a grandfather Quebecer whose we déplorons Act disparition , Greg Moore . 
i ai strokes the honour to represent Act riding of Mission - Port Moody , the country of Terry Fox , a result our grands heroes Airports , and health region of Maple Ridge , the country of several grands athletes - by example Cam Neely , a grandfather joueur of hockey , Larry Walker and Greg Moore . 
the 31 October , a affreux accident apply is produced Act a circuit of courses of automobiles fell California . 
Greg has démarré dapper career of coureur automobile chez his father , who guardian concessionnaire of voitures Chrysler , at Maple Ridge , based on autoroute of Lougheed . 
confirms apply trouve streets a comté that I ai already représenté . 
bye the époque where I étais MP and Minister of the cabinet streets the another House , I passais often Act unabated road car mon office not guardian not loin . 
i ai seen what garçon , streets ses young years , shepherding the foreign karts streets the coin . 
i connaissais also his father and the other members of health family . 
Greg has connu Act notoriété very jeune , courant at them sides of grands pilots commentator them Villeneuve , Fittipaldi , Andretti and Paul Tracy . 
he has su apply impose . 
we étions nombreux at see fell him a heroes . 
much of young Canadians the considéraient commentator tel . 
he guardian non only sympathique and gentil , but he guardian also always disposé at participate at them programs of promotion of health safety routière streets them schools and other initiatives relatives at Act conduct and at dapper profession . 
i know that toutes them persons here présentes voudront apply join at moi yeas offer at dapper family and at all ses friends our condolences them more sincères yeas Act loss of bearer éminent Quebecer . 
the Jour of the Souvenir 
the Honourable Bill Rompkey : 
commentator the senator Forrestall and the other senator acclaimed mentioned , he rereads has strokes what morning , streets unabated enceinte , series ceremony émouvante yeas Act Shipping Shipping . 
i aurais aimé that a more grandfather number of condolences colleagues puissent there assister . 
apply they specialist been here , they auraient quitté them lieux them yeux pleins of water , I fell am certain . 
i veux thank the Speaker of wheel licences that royal ceremony apply déroule streets unabated enceinte and yeas dapper participation at Act commémoration . 
i hope that we pourrons celebrate each year unabated ceremony fell souvenir of health Shipping Shipping . 
if you aviez fact campaign at Newfoundland - Newfoundland , and notamment streets them regions rural of unabated province , commentator I the ai fact , you auriez seen Act various murs series or several of them photos suivantes : 
Joey Smallwood , the Pope , health reine , John Kennedy and series photo of the Caribou . 
he has sombré durant Act Second Guerre World . 
much of people that I connaissais are dead Act what bateau . 
he is became a symbol marquant of health Shipping Shipping and a symbol of ceux who acclaimed been mobilisés and the ceux who are allés volontairement make their share yeas contributing at the effort to war same apply they not portaient not the uniforme . 
lors of health ceremony of what morning , til has célébré these people and til has recognized their contribution at the effort to war . 
honourable senators , I hope that we cannot manquerons not the opportunity to participate , the 11 November , at them ceremonies who faces dérouleront streets our regions yeas commémorer ceux who faces are battus and who acclaimed rose their lives yeas make the what country what that he is today today . 
health Second Guerre World 
the cinquante - fifth anniversary of health bataille of the golfe of the Saint - Lawrence 
the Honourable MabelM. DeWare : 
honourable senators , commentator the Honourable Senator complements of the mention , we étions all invités by the Speaker at assister streets unabated Room what morning , at 11 hours , at Act ceremony commémorant the 55e anniversary of health bataille of the golfe of the Saint - Lawrence . 
yeas you give series idea of the importance and the Government impact of unabated bataille historic , I query you make share of them propos of the Honourable George Baker , who has commitments share at Act ceremony . 
he has said : 
unabated year , we commémorons a épisode little connu of health Seconde Guerre World who faces is déroulé here same at the Canada . 
what is the history incredible of them men and the foreign women who acclaimed defended our rives , our waters and our ciel streets the golfe of the Saint - Lawrence , between 1942 and 1944 . 
a grandfather number of between eux , there including the foreign members of health Marine Royal canadienne , the Government Aviation Royal Canadian the Canada , the Day Shipping Shipping of the Canada and the Newfoundland - Newfoundland , the foreign services allies and the Day Nursing Sisters Association of Canada there acclaimed shirts their lives . 
cinquante - five years later later , what is with pride and gratitude that we saluons these défenseurs and their camarades dead at the combat . 
these Canadians and Canadiennes acclaimed combattu vaillamment yeas Act peace and health freedom . 
they are dead fell protégeant their maisons and their patrie against series attack directe . 
the foreign civilians innocent acclaimed péri with eux . 
bye cause of them circumstances of health War , a grandfather number of between eux not acclaimed same not to tombe yeas them honorer . 
Koppel . Baker we took also reminded what who suit : 
we awakened the duty non only to us souvenir of these individuals , but also the transmettre their history at them generations futures . 
honourable senators , we awakened solemn unabated responsibility . 
health ceremony who faces is tenue today today here same at the Senate is the genus of them façons whose we pouvons honorer ceux who acclaimed participated at Act bataille of the golfe of the Saint - Lawrence . 
Mrs. Act Gouverneure générale , Adrienne Clarkson , guardian présente at unabated opportunity . 
she apply is jointe at them Veterans Veterans of health bataille of the golfe , the foreign men and the foreign women who acclaimed fact of them sacrifices yeas their countries . 
bearer événement commemorative regroupait also the foreign families and the foreign friends of ceux who acclaimed rose their lives yeas our country . 
confirms me has done chaud at the heart of see the foreign hundreds of élèves assis at Act gallery . 
derrière we run trouvaient of them cadets of health Shipping , the Government air and the Government army . 
eux also are flocked yeas apply souvenir and yeas participate at unabated ceremony very spéciale . 
what is at our young that he appartiendra of préserver the héritage légué by our Veterans Veterans . 
he revient at them aînés streets Act society of encourage foreign nouvelles generations at apply souvenir . 
bye title of parliamentarians and the Canadians who awakened of them cripple personnels of health Seconde Guerre World and who awakened lost the foreign parents and the foreign friends at the surveillance of what conflict , our duty at bearer regard is still more exigeant . 
we pouvons notamment we acquitter of what duty fell assistant at the foreign events commentator gerrymandering of health ceremony of the Souvenir of what morning . 
despite series certaine réticence , I dois say that I ai strokes a little shame what morning of remarquer that only 15 senators étaient présents . 
transport Veterans Veterans and Oceans children acclaimed seen that approximately 80 seats étaient libres . 
dapper appointment at the number of them vingt grands heroes Airports of the XXe century 
the Honourable Catherine S . Callbeck : 
honourable senators , he rereads has more of 90 years , lors of health parution of health version originale anglaise of the roman Anne ... Position Maison at them pignons verts , til guardian loin of penser that what roman deviendrait the genus of them oeuvres of fiction them more populaires of health littérature canadienne , but he is indéniable that he fact now part of our identity culturelle . 
Anne transcende them generations and Oceans frontières at the Canada and everywhere streets the world . 
he is surprising of penser that today today , almost a century after Act first publication , business young considèrent always Anne commentator a model of role positif . 
well course , Anne ... Position Maison at them pignons verts is the implementation of Lucy Maud Montgomery , who we took rose to nombreuses other oeuvres fascinantes at the surveillance of dapper career littéraire , there including individuals romans Act lesquels is fondée Act series Emily of York Moon , who is currently télédiffusée fell what moment . 
recently , streets the framework of a bill parrainé parle Dominion Institute and the Council of them Canadians , Lucy Maud Montgomery has been désignée commentator faisant part of them 20 grands Canadians to the XXe century . 
all levels residents of the Île - du - Prince Edward Édouard savent at breaching standpoint what is true and , thanks at them writings of Montgomery , business other arresting apply fell tribute account also . 
l . Rand Montgomery is a trésor littéraire and Oceans residents of the Île - du - Prince Edward Édouard are fiers that she authorized the genus of them their . 
now , we savons that foreign other Canadians are eux also fiers of she . 
health Court Supreme 
health appointment of the Honourable Beverley McLachlin at the station of Justice fell Opposition 
the Honourable rald - A . 
honourable senators , I widow congratulate the Honourable Justice Beverley McLachlin yeas his accession at the station of Justice fell Opposition of health Court Supreme of the Canada . 
i me réjouis of unabated appointment who entrera fell vigueurle 7 January 2000 . 
he remembered notional , commentator you the savez , the Day first woman at accéder at what station very prestigieux streets the system constitutional Heritage . 
Mrs. McLachlin is series excellente jurist who has gravi all levels échelons of health magistrature yeas , finalement , devenir Justice fell Opposition of the Canada . 
fell effect , after wheel been professeure , puis avocate fell practice privacy , she has been nommée successivement at Act Court Superior of health British - British , puis at Act Court of Appeal , before the revert at Act Court Superior at title of Justice fell Opposition . 
fell March 1989 , she guardian nommée at Act Court Supreme of the Canada , at the age of 46 years . 
she has done dapper Gallery streets number of domaines of the right . 
til not is not fault savoir Act grande place that occupies today today Act Charter canadienne of them rights and freedoms streets our vies and the role accru of our cour of last ressort . 
health Justice McLachlin has also received from them doctorats honorifiques of them universities of health British - British fell 1990 , the Government Alberta fell 1990 and the Toronto fell 1995 . 
i him souhaite everything the success that she deserves well , at the sommet of the power judicial , and streets the édification of health cathédrale of health jurisprudence canadienne . 
dapper closure possible by the government ontarien 
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier : 
honourable senators , what not is not easy to vivre fell French fell Ontario Subcommittee on government ' Mike Harris . 
the file of the hospital Montfort is always appeared them courts . 
we attendons since five months series decision Act the fate of unabated institution of health francophone fell Ontario . 
voilà that today today , the government Harris apply apprête at éliminer series another institution francophone , but unabated once streets the field of the education . 
he remembered notional of the Collège of Alfred , the odyssey college at offer to them surveillance fell Science agroalimentaires fell French fell Ontario . 
the government Harris provoque still dapper minorité francophone who faces battra yeas conserver unabated institution that unabated community has overburdened 50 years at bâtir . 
transport francophones of the Ontario acclaimed the right to ceased , the vivre and the travailler streets their language . 
the is the Government Ontario account series damned industry agroalimentaire that he we tangibly at everything price sauvegarder and unabated sauvegarde proceeded by Act survival of the Collège of Alfred . 
yet series once , he faudra traînerM. Harris and his government appeared them courts yeas obtain justice . 
thief that what is exigeant and fatigant ! 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
the adjournment 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the alinéa 59 ( 1 ) 1:30 ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that , when the Senate apply adjourns today today , what authorized at Tuesday next , the 16 November 1999 , at 14 hours . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
bill to Bill Amend - Première Reading 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) présente the bill to Bill S - 10 , Act amend Act Lois Act Act defence national , health Act Act the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques and the Code criminal . 
( the bill to Bill is read series first once . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series second once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Hays , health second reading of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to the Tuesday 16 November 1999 . ) 
the Code criminal 
bill to Bill Amend - Première Reading 
the Honourable Raymond J . Perrault : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to introduce a bill to Bill who Partnerships been presented lors of health session précédente , the bill to Bill S - 11 , Act amend the Code criminal afin of interdire Act coercition against series human at the hook of mood médicaux who are contraires at dapper religion or at dapper croyance at the character inviolable of health life humaine . 
( the bill to Bill is read series first once . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series second once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Perrault , health second reading of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to the Tuesday 16 November 1999 . ) 
the Association Parliamentary canadienne of the NATO 
health delegation canadienne at Act meeting of health Sous - commission Act the future of them forces Armed , tenue at Ankara and Istanbul , fell Turquie - ô of the report 
the Honourable Bill Rompkey : 
health situation of them aboriginal and their future 
notice of inquiry 
the Honourable Aurélien Gill : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that , the Wednesday 17 November 1999 , I attirerai the attention of the Senate Act Act situation of them aboriginal afin of us permettre of make the standpoint and the réfléchir Act them measures appropriées yeas the futur . 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
health defence national 
the replacement of them helicopters Sea King 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
a another Sea King Partnerships of them ennuis with his system hydraulique unabated week . 
we savons that the reassess ennuis risquent of Welfare catastrophiques , mostly if the snakes apply trouve streets them airs . 
honourable senators , when the government paving he lancer what Bill ? 
perhaps - perhaps the government envisagera he a moyen of doter our ships of helicopters a little more quickly ? 
after everything , we savons that he tangibly substitute the equipment , and we savons also that the former government guardian loan at amorcer the process blocks 1993 , before that the nouveau not annule the program of them 101 - 101 . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I thank the dapper question the Honourable Senator Forrestall , who faces preoccupation vivement of the functioning of them helicopters Sea King . 
commentator I the ai said at them senators he rereads has few days , the replacement of these appareils remains series priority yeas the government , and he is at the Prime rang of them priorities of the minister Present . 
health flotte of helicopters - Provincial ch - 124 Sea King - has been livrée at them Forces Forces fell 1963 , I believe . 
til apply attendait Robbie and til apply attend always at what that these appareils soient fell service until fell 2005 . 
he rereads has strokes of them incidents . 
the foreign problems of maintenance acclaimed surgi . 
the foreign 41 helicopters of the beginning , 30 are always utilisés . 
til is the notice that they arresting play their role until at what that a another apparatus them remplace . 
health possibility of transférer them investigations Act them accidents at the Bureau of health safety of them transport 
the Honourable Micheal J . Forrestall : 
transport honourable senators not are not fault savoir that confirms fact now 1 825 days that the government we took promised that he mettait immediately what program fell implementation . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate is - he conscient that we demandons at them young men and at them young women of our Forces Armed Forces - voyager at bord of a apparatus who is loin of Welfare sécuritaire ? 
the problem , what is that foreign appareils are usés . 
they are fatigués . 
their maintenance we coûte series fortune . 
he tangibly 38 hours of maintenance and sometimes more yeas make steal a helicopter during series hour . 
the minister not apply rend - he not account that we cobwebs fell danger Act life of them members of our Forces Armed Forces ? 
the minister envisage he Act possibility of enlever Act responsibility to them investigations Act them accidents at them military and the Day transférer at the Bureau Heritage of health safety of them transport , who aurait since the foreign years interdit at these helicopters of steal ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , the Honourable Senator has everything at fact reason when he décrit them skills of them members of them Forces Armed Forces chargés of health maintenance and especially of ceux who faces occupent of them helicopters Sea King . 
he conviendra surely with moi that ceux - là figurent Incidence them more expérimentés at the world yeas what who is the what kind of apparatus . 
i cannot think not that the Honourable Senator veuille laisser hear that foreign forces Armed palatable envoyer fell mission his staff streets a apparatus that thin not considèrent not adéquat and loan yeas exécuter Act mission . 
he rereads has strokes and he continuera certainly the cheering wheel of them challenges at relever at the chapter of the maintenance . 
when Act durée of life useful of series pièce of équipement military hook at dapper end , the number and health complexité of these challenges 1.2 . 
confirms apply is produced and confirms continuera of apply produire . 
whereupon that he fell authorized , confirms not wants not say that we enverrions of them people fell mission if their safety and their lives étaient fell danger . 
we devrions reconnaître the excellent work that foreign teams chargées of the maintenance effectuent and that thin continueront of accomplir . 
commentator the Honourable Senator , I hope that these helicopters uncovered remplacés quickly ; the elsewhere , he rereads has few days at peine , the minister me has rose the EI that confirms remains dapper priority numéro a and that he fera fell sorte that the file progresse at vive allure . 
i vais say at the minister that the senator and moi - even the encourageons at régler Act question the most quickly possible . 
the senator Forrestall : 
the Leader of the government at the Senate not has not answered at ma question . 
ma question rest without response . 
permettez - moi of there add a volet and I hope that he rereads répondra . 
Seneca the second volet of ma question : the minister recognizes - he that the work préalable at the replacement of them helicopters embarqués Partnerships already been accompli when the Prime Minister Present has decided to annuler the program of acquisition of them 101 - 101 ? 
two years of work acclaimed already been accomplies . 
pouvons - we wheel certaines assurances ? 
we awakened whereas eight years and we cannot pouvons not supporter fell more a gap of three years , because that what is critique . 
these helicopters not are not fiables . 
til should them frapper of ban the flight . 
the minister paving he also we say what that he think of health proposal according laquelle Act monitoring of health performance of these appareils serait confiée at the Bureau of health safety of them transport and non more at them military Airports ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , the senator pose two questions . 
he request for thanking if I dispel or non him ensure that foreign helicopters uncovered remplacés before eight years . 
the afternoon what that I dispel conclude of them conversations that I ai eues with the minister , I am course that we cannot attendrons not eight years before the substitute them Sea King . 
i voudrais réussir at the convince that we cannot aurons not at wait still eight years before that foreign helicopters soient remplacés . 
the senator has also posé series question at the topic of them investigations Act them incidents liés at the utilisation of them appareils military . 
frankly , what not is not a field that I organize much . 
i think however that fell General , business forces Armed of all levels country apply occupent thin - mêmes of what kind of activité . 
what not is perhaps - perhaps not necessarily the case and the senator rereads can - perhaps me enlighten at what topic at a moment rose . 
whereupon that he fell authorized , I cannot dispel respond to fashion précise yeas the moment . 
the replacement of health flotte of helicopters Sea King - Possibility possibility of the credit - bail 
the Honourable GerrySt. Germain : 
honourable senators , ma question is supplementary at them questions posées by the senator Forrestall . 
he remembered trouve that I ai piloté of them avions of the Armée of the air and that I pilote always . 
i the précise yeas explain what that I vais ask at the minister . 
the government is fell train of ask at them employees of the maintenance of make the foreign miracles . 
i ai began ma career military streets the maintenance before the make part of the staff navigant . 
what is Act reason yeas laquelle I know that foreign préposés at the maintenance Cutbacks of the excellent work , but they not Cutbacks not to miracle . 
i ai read everything recently that series hour of flight of these Sea King nécessite 30 hours of maintenance . 
he is allé until at - and that til me corrige if I ai wrongly - autoriser them équipages at not not steal apply they estimaient that the apparatus not guardian not course . 
when til fell is rendu là , what is fini . 
how the minister has he avoided the make fell activist that member of the cabinet ? 
i estimated that if a accident survient , health responsibility fell incombera entièrement at the cabinet , mostly at the minister of health Défense national and at the Prime Minister of the country . 
i believe that he rereads has the foreign solutions , commentator Act location of helicopters . 
he existe quantité of appareils fell bon état of marche streets the world who palatable perhaps utilisés yeas unabated function fell blunt security . 
why not optons - we not yeas unabated possibility ? 
when I ai posé unabated question at the prédécesseur of the Leader of the government , he has answered that he fell Partnerships discussed with the Prime Minister and that unabated solution guardian at the study . 
i ai volé at bord of a aéronef at four places fell company of a another of our senators . 
i ai accordé series attention particulière at Act question of health safety . 
even if the senator Partnerships been Liberal , I aurais accordé Act same attention at Act security . 
when I étais streets them forces strikes , I ai surely piloté of them avions rose at their bord of them Liberals or volé fell company of Liberals , and I étais everything also conscient of their safety . 
honourable senators , I prie instamment the minister of And Act possibility of louer of them appareils and I request that the snakes me fournisse series response at bearer regard . 
commentator I the ai said , he rereads has the foreign million for helicopters . 
fell America of the North only , til fell trouve at the least the foreign thousands . 
why not loue til not ? 
why traitons - we our military of health sorte ? 
health way whose we traitons our military at various other égards is also scandaleuse . 
why traitons - we to health sorte them équipages who cherchent at sauver of them vies and who , what faisant , mettent fell péril their own life ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
the Honourable Senator has soulevé bon number of points and I cannot chercherai not at respond at composite of between eux . 
more specifically , fell what who pertains the helicopter Sea King , the Honourable Senator has mentioned that mon prédécesseur has strokes of them discussions with the minister regarding health possibility of recourir at Act location . 
i cannot ai not abordé unabated question with the minister . 
however , I vais certainly try to wheel series discussion similar with the minister and I serai can - perhaps ensuite fell measure of fournir of them information more precise . 
honourable senators , before the reprendre mon seat , I tiens at souligner that foreign Forces Armed Forces accomplissent a job remarkable , with them helicopters Sea King or everything another apparatus . 
thin acclaimed been appuyées by the government . 
bye mon notice , business people who are chargés of the maintenance of them helicopters Sea King , fell more of accomplir a job remarkable , not permettraient never that a aéronef authorized utilisé apply they estiment that he constitue series threat yeas ceux who faces trouvent at his bord . 
transport préposés at the maintenance of them helicopters Sea King accomplissent a job remarkable streets of them circumstances which , tangibly - he the reconnaître , are difficiles , particularly when the snakes tient account the Government fact that he remembered notional of vieux appareils . 
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire 
health possibility of a fund - transition yeas them farmers who désirent changer of profession 
the Honourable Herber O . Sparrow : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
however , before the Day poser , I tiens of nouveau at him express condolences remerciements and ceux of health House yeas wheel authorized Act tenue of health discussion that we awakened eue yesterday at the topic of health crisis Farm at the Canada . 
i thank all levels honourable senators ' their apport at what debate . 
i ai cru understand that the minister of the Agriculture fera today today series statement at Act House of them Commons Act the increase the Government budget of the program ACRA . 
i am however a little inquiet appeared a section paru streets the Globe Mail Mail of today today where til bed that : 
til believes also that the minister envisage of create a fund interim yeas them farmers who décident of abdicate at the Agriculture and the run recycler . 
i am inquiet because that I cannot organize aucune organization of farmers and nil farmer rose asked a tel program . 
confirms me gives at penser that the government essaie of pousser them farmers at abandonner the Agriculture . 
what not is not the objective of our doléances . 
what that we voulons , what is permettre at them farmers to continue to cultiver Act earth , not them encourage at Act quitter . 
when business farmers to health Saskatchewan , the Government Manitoba and the Government Alberta quittent them campaigns , the tissu Housing of unabated part of the Canada is déchiré . 
he tangibly that all levels farmers and toutes them families of farmers restent là where they are yeas soutenir the system of them elevators at grains , the system of post and the system of health . 
if the article said true , I am very inquiet . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate may - he we say if the government and the minister of the Agriculture envisagent seriously of offer a tel program ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I thank the Honourable Senator . 
yeas respond at Act first part of health issue , I dirai that I cannot am at the courant of aucune discussion anguishes of aucune proposal fell what sense lors of condolences audiences with the minister . 
i cannot dispel therefore respond at Act question of savoir if the idea has been Proposed by series another organization . 
however , commentator I me rendais at the Senate bearer after - afternoon , til me has 3.25 a release of the minister of the Agriculture and the Government Agroalimentaire who expose them details of the offers introductory by the minister . 
i ai asked at mon staff to me procurer Act version bilingue of the announcement afin that foreign senators puissent fell prendre knowledge . 
i account Act recevoir Subcommittee little . 
if tel is the bon plaisir of them honourable senators , I their remettrai of them copies of unabated announcement . 
the announcement not done état anguishes of program of rachat anguishes of other provisions of unabated nature . 
unabated somme apply ajoute at them something 600 million for $ versés at the subheading of payments fédéraux annuels at them farmers . 
the most , the other changes at them modalités of directors of the program are at the study . 
fell everything case , til introduces that foreign premiers ministers provinciaux who are flocked at Ottawa recently yeas express their concerns at bearer regard apply joindront at the government federal yeas tribute the program ACRA much more accessible . 
i guess that foreign provinces continueront of adhérer at Act rule actuelle of the sharing the foreign costs fondée , who faces fact Act Act basic of 60 / 40 fell tenant account the these 170 million for $ 1.2 . 
streets what case - là , the fund apply verrait doter of a another amount considérable . 
health request for a program of maintien of them farmers Act their lands 
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson : 
honourable senators , I ai series question supplementary regarding the maintien of them farmers Act their lands . 
bye the hour actuelle , he not rest more than 2,5p. cent of health population canadienne streets the sector of the Agriculture . 
he is therefore highly important to them there maintain . 
bye them States - U.S. , the chairman Clinton has déclaré that he has decided to sign series telle measure because that foreign farmers are confrontés at series exodus situation of emergency and not arresting not wait . 
health measure prévoyait a amount of 8,7 billion to $ yeas them farmers trillion . 
the chairman of the Syndicat attain of them farmers has said that unabated infusion of assistance can make Act difference between abandonner and stay fell Affairs . 
the important , what is the garder them farmers fell agriculture . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate aurait - he the obligeance of communiquer confirms at the cabinet ? 
we awakened been happy to learn that til Partnerships commitments certaines measures yeas infuser more of capitaux streets Act situation . 
i think that what is loin of Welfare suffisant , étant rose the extrême gravité of health situation at laquelle we cynicism opposite . 
however , the Leader could - he we ensure that he exhortera the government at instituer a program yeas garder them farmers fell agriculture rather than the foreign help at the abandonner ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I cannot ai aucune difficulty at say that the snakes should make everything what who is raisonnablement possible yeas garder them farmers fell agriculture , where they continueront of apporter series contribution at Act life and at Act society Forces commentator they the acclaimed fact at the incorrigible of them years . 
i voudrais simply paraphraser series part of the release of press who complements of me parvenir . 
the minister of the Agriculture and the Government Agroalimentaire said : " We demanderons at them provinces of apply associer at us , streets the framework of the program ACRA , yeas couvrir 70p. cent of them marges négatives of them producers or entreprendre of them measures équivalentes . " 
by elsewhere , the minister of the Agriculture and the Government Agroalimentaire has said that we allons continue at travailler with them provinces and the sector Farm yeas find the foreign manières of venir fell assistance at them farmers , particularly ceux who are the most fell difficulty . 
unabated statement said without nil doubt that a commitment to the government federal existe and that he is accompagné of impotent importantes yeas venir fell assistance at ceux who are the most fell difficulty and who risquent the most of wheel at quitter their earth . 
i me attends at what that unabated measure fingertips the effect désiré by the Honourable Senator . 
the minister of the Agriculture and the Government Agroalimentaire deserves the perhaps félicité of Welfare past at the Action without wait series solution négociée with them provinces . 
fell mettant immediately bearer money streets the program , the minister and the government federal réagissent of way very directe and very active . 
til guess that foreign provinces their emboîteront the not and contribueront at Act bonification of the ACRA . 
the government federal and the minister not acclaimed however not voulu make traîner them things during series week , quinze days , ten days , a month and not acclaimed not whereas the wheel series garantie écrite at bearer effect . 
the minister has réagi immediately . 
bearer money paving improve the functioning of the program . 
he paving parvenir at them farmers whose business needs are them more grands and who risquent the most of quitter their lands . 
the Program of assistance fell case of catastrophe liée at the Income Farm - Ex allocation of funds additional - Request for clarification of health statement of the minister 
the Honourable Herbert O . Sparrow : 
honourable senators , the Leader wants - he say that foreign nouveaux fund uncovered versés before Senators Veterans ? 
is - what là what that he wants say when he said that foreign things iront more vite ? 
transport farmers not acclaimed not yet received them Veterans fund auxquels they acclaimed right fell vertu of the program ACRA and now , til entend say that foreign nouveaux fund their uncovered versés more quickly ? 
i me request if the Leader of the government at the Senate could rapporter the message suivant at the minister , at savoir that yeas these nouveaux fund , we cannot awakened not really need to a another formulaire of 47 pages . 
we fell awakened enough to the former ; we voudrions something something of more simple . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , the government has recognized that foreign fund who étaient prévus streets the framework of the program ACRA not étaient not versés enough quickly at them bénéficiaires . 
i ai listened the excellente intervention that the senator Carstairs has introductory yesterday streets unabated House . 
she has clearly and fell blunt candeur underlined them problems that posait the program . 
the money not guardian not versé at them farmers streets the need also quickly that the government federal and Oceans other parties at the agreement ACRA the specialist voulu . 
he not guardian not versé at them farmers also quickly that foreign concepteurs of the program the specialist voulu . 
the utilisation of these nouveaux fund arranged assujettie at them mêmes rules . 
transport fund iront streets the same panier . 
the minister has however also announced that some changes petitioners apportés at the program , thanks auxquels he is at espérer that foreign farmers toucheront bearer money much more vite . 
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson : 
honourable senators , fell vertu of the former program , streets the case of series average of three years of a farmer , run he has grêlé series year and that ensuite Act sécheresse has sévi series or two years of subsequently , business 70p. cent of unabated average Act three years nor suffiraient assurément not . 
the minister could - he make understand at ses colleagues on the cabinet at breaching standpoint he is important to help them farmers whose business needs are them more criants ? 
apply they acclaimed been victims of pluie or the grêle , 70p. cent of two years mauvaises not riment at nothing . 
what are these people who acclaimed the most souffert ; what are these people who fell acclaimed the most need . 
yeas that the program authorized effective , the foreign changes apply imposent yeas allegiances a term at these souffrances . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , the problem has can - perhaps been réglé . 
i paraphrase at nouveau the release . 
i ignore if what change apporte series solution at the problem soulevé by the senator , but he allows the croire that series assistance is prévue yeas them situations that he we took signalées . 
honourable senators , that he me authorized licences of déposer the release . 
i viens of the recevoir streets them two languages Languages and I ferai make the foreign copies additional yeas them senators who the souhaitent . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
we fell ferons of them copies and Oceans distribuerons blocks that thin uncovered prêtes . 
health request for assistance financière fell favour of them déshydrateurs of luzerne 
the Honourable Nicholas W . Taylor : 
honourable senators , I ai series question supplementary . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate may - he inform the cabinet of the problem that familiar them déshydrateurs of luzerne of the West , who obtiennent their récoltes auprès of them farmers ? 
they are fell difficulty , car they specialist promised at them farmers activist of $ Act tonne and they repositories Act sell less cher . 
he remembered notional primarily of small companies , sometimes the foreign cooperatives . 
few douzaines of between thin streets the west of the Canada feront probably bankruptcy , car the minister of the Agriculture has déterminé that thin étaient fell effect of them companies and that thin not étaient therefore not admissibles at the program ACRA . 
pourtant , if thin Cutbacks bankruptcy , a certain number of farmers not pourront more sell their luzerne . 
even apply he remembered notional là of very small businesses , thin procurent of them jobs . 
puisque the program ACRA not is the aucune assistance at bearer regard , I hope that the Leader of the government at the Senate rereads communiquer their problem at the cabinet and savoir apply he existe a another moyen of them help at the surveillance of them two or three prochaines years and the garder ouvertes them déshydrateuses of luzerne . 
after everything , business farmers fell acclaimed grandement need . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I know gré at the senator ' Affairs observations that he has faites at what topic . 
i me ferai a plaisir of communiquer ses concerns at the cabinet , notamment at the minister compétent . 
transport fisheries and Oceans océans 
transport provinces maritimes - Possibility decision to health Court Supreme confirmant them rights of fishery aboriginal - Comments effects Act the economy locale 
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau : 
honourable senators , ma question door Act a topic légèrement différent , authorized Act decision that royal Court Supreme has rendue recently streets the affair Marshall . 
little regardless Act way whose til can considérer unabated decision , health plupart of them people conviennent that she fingertips of profondes repercussions Act Act life of them aboriginal and the foreign other Canadians to health region of the Atlantic . 
fell outre , business measures to adaptation auront of them consequences yeas the economy and Oceans finances of everyone the Canada . 
i vais mention ses consequences éventuelles yeas the gas of the island of Sable , business rights of coupe and Oceans rights minéraux , and analyzed of subsequently . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate could - he say quelles measures and quels plans to emergency are currently overburdened fell implementation yeas make opposite at them ajustements Economic and at them repercussions of the judgment of health Court Supreme ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , commentator til the knows fort well , health decision Marshall has the thanking strokes yeas effect immédiat of create series crisis streets them fisheries at the Canada Atlantic . 
health priority of the minister of them Fisheries and the Government government has been the try to redresser Act situation at the most vite streets the espoir of ramener the calme and the favoriser Act tenue of pourparlers between them two parties to manner at find series solution sustainable at a problem which has the foreign repercussions very graves at court term . 
certaines scènes whose we awakened been witnesses we acclaimed all overburdened evil at the aise , I fell am certain . 
the process of negotiating at court term seems perhaps well établi . 
the calme seems rétabli and we awakened bon espoir of make avancer them pourparlers . 
he not can perhaps assumé only by foreign fishermen of the Canada Atlantic , not more of elsewhere that by foreign employees of office of Vancouver . 
what is everything the country which doit ensure the regulation , fell recognition of them rights aboriginal reassess that définis by Act Court Supreme . 
i me attends at what that what authorized a process at term term . 
however , streets them sectors where he tangibly blocks now find series solution , notamment streets them fisheries of the Atlantic , I think that til has done to the excellent work and I hope that til continuera streets unabated veine . 
health possibility of a fond of transition yeas them fishermen voulant changer of profession 
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau : 
honourable senators , I cannot ai not avoided make otherwise that remarquer Act question that the senator Sparrow has posée more earlier at the topic of them programs of adaptation who are envisagés or the foreign rumeurs according lesquelles of reassess programs petitioners envisagés yeas the sector Farm . 
various sources prétendent that the foreign impotent acclaimed been prescribed yeas series sorte of program of adaptation - I cannot emploierai not the word " rachat " . 
i ai heard parler of 500 million for $ - I believe wheel accounted eight zéros after the five - which petitioners versés sideshow yeas the sector Farm . 
what is là series somme enormous . 
the same kind of approach is - he envisagé yeas them fisheries - fell of other termes , envisage til of racheter the permits of certaines persons of the sector of them fisheries and the other sectors , what who ajoutera of other zéros at the amount - or is - what simply series rumeur who restorative ? 
i remind at the minister that he rereads has currently much of uncertainty streets of nombreuses communities . 
health fishing of Winter , series fishing very limitée , paving soon commencer . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I cannot dispel confirm nil figure fondé Act to them conjectures . 
i serais very étonné that the foreign figures aient been avancés at what stadium . 
series of them reasons is notamment that til not connaît not yet blunt Act scope of the judgment Marshall - Speaker application , ses tenants and aboutissants . 
something share , streets the dédale gouvernemental , something a échafaude can - perhaps toutes sortes of scénarios , but I doubt that the foreign figures aient been seriously envisagés at what stadium . 
he is possible that a rachat apply matérialise at a certain stadium . 
bye propos , honourable senators , I cannot dispel not confirm - well at the contrary - Request them rumeurs of what kind at the topic of them farmers . 
i cannot am at the courant of nil program of rachat of them farmers . 
i cannot veux not induire the Senate fell mistake at bearer regard . 
however , health situation is légèrement différente streets the case of them fisheries . 
a program of rachat is already fell vigueur . 
fell fact , he existe a program autochtone of rachat streets the framework duquel til rachète of them licences streets some sectors of them fisheries yeas them equation at Act community autochtone . 
what program existait already before the judgment Marshall , and he is at somewhat close course that he remembered poursuivra Subcommittee series certaine form . 
i insiste at nouveau auprès of the senator : Act situation pose a challenge non only at them fishermen of the Brunswick - Brunswick or the Day Nova Scotia Nova , but at everything the Canada . 
orders OF THE 
transport travaux of the Senate 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I request at the Clerk of appeler fell Prime the second standpoint at the Order of the day , Subcommittee Act rubrique of them " Projets of Bill " , at savoir , health second reading of the projetde bill C - 6 . 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
second reading - Adjourned of the debate 
perhaps honourable senators , I am pleased to wheel the opportunity to parler at the Senate to the bill to Bill C - 6 , whose the subheading abrégé is Act Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques . 
with the arrival of health nouvelle economy of the information , business Canadians trouvent of nouvelles façons of communiquer between eux , with them markets , with them governments and the world entier . 
all levels Canadians acclaimed a interest streets Act nouvelle economy of the savoir who entraîne of them changes which touchent profondément toutes our vies . 
health Success of the Canada at the XXIe century dépendra of health ability to all levels Canadians to participate with success at the economy World of the savoir . 
yeas ensure unabated participation , we devrons agir quickly afin of give at them Canadians the access and Oceans skills nécessaires and the their ensure that unabated nouvelle technology not minera fell nothing the respect to them information personnels whose they arresting now jouir . 
the projetde bill C - 6 , health Act Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques , is a not important streets Act réalisation of these objectives . 
honourable senators , the bill to Bill C - 6 is the fruit of a review éclairé by the nombreux expert streets the field of health protection of them data and the Government trade électronique , the consultations translated larges and the one review approfondi at the another place . 
he arranged submitted at the intenses hearings by a committee Standing of the Senate . 
the bill to Bill apply attack at three issues larges yeas help them Canadians at well exploiter the true potentiel of the Internet commentator médium of information and moyen of commercer . 
the bill to Bill paving , premièrement , create series solution to rechange électronique yeas traiter with the government federal ; deuxièmement , établir series assise legal yeas them dossiers électroniques and the foreign signatures électroniques sûres ; troisièmement , protect them information personnels of them Canadians when they traitent with the foreign companies privées . 
the government federal has been the one of them premiers at utiliser the network Internet yeas improve them services that he offrait at them Canadians , everything fell accroissant the effectiveness and fell réduisant them costs . 
bon number of them transactions effectuées by the government federal auprès of the public , the Day transmission of them statements of incomes at Act research of information sur series variété of subjects , arresting now perhaps effectuées of way électronique , and what the way much more rapide and less coûteuse that autrefois . 
however , til could make much yeas tirer profit from everything what that the Internet has referred we offer if til modifiait them laws and regulations fédéraux fell vigueur . 
bon number of our laws and regulations précisent that foreign information repositories perhaps Message by wrote or that some documents repositories porter series Signing . 
these provisions arresting perhaps interprétées , and the are often , commentator exigeant series transaction manuelle Act papier , empêchant blocks lors the Points at the foreign méthodes électroniques . 
the bill to Bill C - 6 we allows the tribute our laws and regulations compatibles with our Insignia environment électronique . 
he we permettra of offer series solution to rechange at Act transmission of informations Act support papier . 
transport parties 2 at 5 of the bill to Bill C - 6 éliminent the se - disant party commitments yeas the support papier streets our laws and regulations fédéraux fell faisant essentially disparaître unabated teachings of support . 
otherwise said , business laws and regulations reconnaîtrons now them transmissions and information électroniques Act the same foot that foreign documents papiers . 
the bill to Bill C - 6 rendra them transactions effectuées Act support électronique at them termes of them laws fédérales équivalentes at celles effectuées Act papier . 
transport citizens and Oceans businesses pourront Robbie perhaps some that foreign documents and signatures électroniques acclaimed Act same value legal . 
the bill to Bill C - 6 not remplacera not and not éliminera not them Communications by wrote . 
he fera rather of health transmission électronique of data by ordinateur series option at Act once realistic , practical and mostly reconnue at the level legal . 
the most , we permettons at the government federal - offer to them services below series form who devient of more fell more popular auprès of them Canadians , authorized by voie électronique , at the moyen of Internet . 
transport Canadians veulent more than ever make the foreign transactions électroniques , non only with their governments , but also with the sector private . 
well - Provincial preuves viennent the confirm , allant of them results of sondages of opinion at the number of transactions currently effectuées Act Internet and at the rate of rBGH the these transactions . 
fell reason for the omniprésence of them networks and the Day skating accrue at laquelle apply Cutbacks streets what field them progress technological , business businesses recueillent of more fell more of information provenant of sources of more fell more various , business échangent more quickly , business transmettent more loin and Oceans combinent of way more ingénieuse that never . 
confirms has transformé the treatment of them information personnels fell a well . 
transport information personnels are désormais achetés , vendus and échangés . 
they acclaimed series certaine value commerciale . 
yeas that fleurisse the trade électronique at the Canada , business consumers repositories perhaps rassurés Act Act way whose their information personnels are recueillis , sauvegardés and utilisés . 
transport Canadians craignent that their lives privacy not authorized menacée by Act popularity croissante of them transactions électroniques analyzed that the entreposage of them information and the foreign fichiers accumulés Act composite of between us . 
they veulent that the government collabore with them businesses yeas régler what problem . 
according them results of a poll of health firme Angus Reid diffusés fell July 1998 , 88p. cent of them Canadians trouvent " uncalled " that foreign companies and Oceans organizations vendent , échangent or partagent of them listes renfermant of them information personnels . 
the milieu of them Affairs has recognized the malaise that confirms pouvait create and has passed a code volontaire of health protection of them information personnels élaboré by the Association canadienne of normalisation . 
even if them efforts déployés by foreign companies yeas adhere what code are impressionnants , business Canadians acclaimed need to meilleures guarantees afin of wheel Act certainty that their lives privacy is protégée when they Cutbacks of them transactions . 
the bill to Bill C - 6 garantit at them Canadians that their lives privacy arranged protégée fell prévoyant a code of protection of them information personnels at Act once applicable and obligatoire . 
bye the hour actuelle , the information personnelle traverse toutes them frontières , Provincial , territoriales and nationales . 
however , étant rose that the bill to Bill C - 6 is axé Act the world of them Affairs , the government federal believes that he constituera a fiscal légitime of his power to regulatory of the trade at the Canada . 
néanmoins , honourable senators , the committee auquel what Bill of Bill is renvoyé entendra of them testimony of expert who feront valoir of them arguments yeas and against at the topic of unabated question BNA . 
honourable senators , he is clearly necessary to adopt the foreign laws nationales . 
transport provinces , that thin agissent seules or collectively , not arresting adopt the foreign laws susceptibles of protect efficacement the information which franchit them limits Provincial and internationales . 
series congruent of health British - British recueillant of them information sur of them clients at the Manitoba could them divulguer at series another congruent at the Brunswick - Brunswick or at York York . 
he is therefore clear that the Canada has need to series bill national yeas protect them data personnelles fell pareilles circumstances - Request series bill which serait harmonisée with celles of them provinces and the foreign territories exerçant their role streets their champ of jurisdiction . 
honourable senators , the bill to Bill C - 6 paving apply appliquer at all levels sectors of activité , indépendamment of health taille of them businesses . 
confirms comprend also the sector of health health . 
he paving permettre of protect them information personnels fell matière of health who acclaimed been recueillis , utilisés and releases streets the framework of activity commerciales . 
yeas that foreign rules Act Act protection of them data concordent of series juridiction at the another , the government encourage foreign provinces and Oceans territories at protect them data of them citizens streets their champ of jurisdiction and at them harmoniser non only with Act bill fédérale Act Act protection of them information personnels , but also between eux . 
health part 1 to the bill to Bill C - 6 établit the right at Act protection of them information personnels . 
she énonce them rules which repositories régir Act Donor , the utilisation and health communication of them information personnels streets the framework of activity commerciales . 
transport principles énoncés streets Act norme of health CSA acclaimed trait at Act way whose business organizations devraient recueillir , utiliser , divulguer and protect them information personnels . 
they prévoient that foreign companies repositories explain them purposes auxquelles them information are recueillis ; obtain the Government particular the consent of recueillir them information ; utiliser and divulguer of them information personnels ; and understand the foreign measures autorisant the access at them dossiers and prévoyant Act responsibility to the organization . 
what is the commissioner at Act protection of health life privacy of the Canada who arranged chargé of superviser the exécution of health part 1 to health law . 
he arranged chargé of make inquiry and the play the role of médiateur fell case of différend analyzed that the make inquiry streets the case of them complaints . 
bye mon notice , the committee voudra notamment discuss the foreign rules nécessaires yeas veiller at what that the commissioner at Act protection of health life privacy , streets the fiscal of ses rôles of enquêteur and the médiateur , diminishes them lines directrices découlant of various decisions rendues by Act Court Supreme , there including health decision regarding Casual powers fell matière of fouille , the perquisition and the saisie of the ancienne Act relative at them investigations Act them coalitions fell report with the affair of the Edmonton Journal . 
what is manifestement là a aspect Act lequel the committee voudra apply pencher . 
transport différends non résolus arresting perhaps abordés streets the framework of unabated bill fell apply présentant appeared Act Court fédérale yeas that she tranche définitivement Act question . 
the commissioner at Act protection of health life privacy apply voit also attribuer a fort mandate fell matière of education of the public , authorized help them businesses at satisfaire at them requirements of health law . 
bye the hour actuelle at the Canada , til can say that royal protection of them information personnels is sporadique and inégale . 
health majority of them industries not are absolument not tenues of adhere something rule that what authorized regarding health cueillette , the utilisation and health divulgation of them information personnels . 
transport other are assujetties at what that the commissioner at Act protection of health life privacy of the Canada has appelé series " mosaïque " the laws , the regulations and the codifies . 
he not there has that royal province of Quebec who possède series bill to vast scope régissant the utilisation of them information personnels by the sector private . 
transport businesses Forces demandent also that authorized adoptée series measure legislative who fixerait a odyssey together to rules nationales afin of uniformiser them rules of the stake at the échelle of the country and the foreign various types of companies . 
transport businesses Forces constatent that royal protection of health life privacy has the Government bon sense Act the Mifflin Plan them Affairs . 
thin admits that series bill souple , but effective contribuera at convince them clients of accept the trade électronique and , partant , at accroître the volume of them Affairs . 
the Canada has need to series nouvelle bill yeas protect Act life privacy . 
unabated bill doit ensure a certain balance . 
the genus share , he rereads has the right to health human of exercer a control Act ses information personnels , and he tangibly give at them consumers of them Points efficaces apply they estiment that til fell has done a usage abusif . 
the another share , health law doit respond at them needs of the industry , who doit recueillir and utiliser of them information personnels , what who is a élément indispensable at the success streets the economy of the information . 
honourable senators , I estimated that the bill to Bill C - 6 , whose we analyzed saisis , assure the bon balance . 
he aidera at bâtir Act confidence of the consommateur everything fell instaurant them rules which donnent at the milieu of them Affairs Committee climate of certainty whose he has need yeas exploiter at fond the potentiel of the trade électronique and analyzed contributing at make the Government Canada a Opposition of file streets the trade électronique and the field of the information . 
i ai hurry of prendre share at the study of what Bill of Bill at the committee . 
i invite instamment all levels senators at prendre share at unabated study and at Refer the bill to Bill C - 6 the most quickly possible at the committee . 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
honourable senators , I dissenting make the foreign observations enough étoffées Act the bill to Bill , after whereupon I proposerai the adjournment of the debate . 
several persons and organizations acclaimed exprimé of them composition at the topic of what Bill of Bill No. 
i essaie of prendre of them provisions yeas them rencontrer at the beginning of health week next , if possible . 
i songe fell particular at the foreign representatives of the sector of health health . 
i cannot voudrais not finishing condolences observations at the phase of health second reading without hear their standpoint of standpoint . 
after the adjournment of the debate , I me move the finishing mon intervention at our Return , after the congé of the day to the Souvenir . 
i observance also at them honourable senators that at the least one another colleague the what side - ci , the senator Oliver , entend participate at the debate on second reading . 
fell reality , the bill to Bill regroupe two measures fell series Gotcha . 
Mrs. the minister of health Howe has she - even avoué , when she has comparu appeared the committee of them Communes , that he rereads Partnerships at the departure two bills of Bill distincts , what that foreign officials acclaimed confirmed . 
bye the surveillance of the study at the cabinet , something a is arrivé with the foreign ciseaux and a pot of colle and has decided to fell make a odyssey text . 
health part 1 protégera them information personnels who are recueillis at the foreign purposes commerciales . 
transport parties 2 at 5 veilleront at what that foreign documents and Oceans procédés électroniques soient compatibles with Act Act Act Act Evidence at the Canada , health Act Act them textes réglementaires , health Act Act Act révision of them laws , and analyzed of subsequently . 
unabated measure facilitera the trade électronique with the government ' s Canada . 
health part 1 and Oceans parties 2 at 5 not apply limitent not at a principle or at a thème fell particular . 
what Bill of Bill is fell effect a bill to Bill omnibus . 
what is celle of the Honourable Herb Gray , who parlait Robbie at the name of the Opposition referred the opportunity to the debate Act the free - Exchange at Act House of them Commons fell 1988 . 
Seneca ses propos : 
the Main advantage of series procedure omnibus , what is that the bill to Bill fell question , well that he VI at établir or at modify several laws disparates , richly Act a principle or a goal who crée a link between toutes them laws proposées , rendant analyzed the bill to Bill intelligible streets the context Parliamentary . 
gold , what Bill of Bill " no framework not " , commentator til said , with unabated definition . 
celle - ci is very concise . 
several Présidents the acclaimed resuming by Act subsequently , health considérant commentator series excellente definition of what that should perhaps a bon bill omnibus . 
the bill to Bill C - 6 not is not a bon bill omnibus . 
he richly Act two themes , two principles différents . 
authorized said fell blunt charité and fell tenant account the foreign problems auxquels étaient confrontés them editors , unabated tentative of inventer a principle or a thème Robbie that he not fell is nothing not has nothing to very impressionnant . 
what is everything at fact déloyal . 
voilà still the foreign pirouettes legal and verbales . 
health first part of the bill to Bill , regarding health protection of them information personnels , door Act them information personnels recueillis of something way that what authorized , by the foreign afford électroniques or everything another moyen . 
the term title , fell tâchant of give a principle unique or a thème unique at the bill to Bill - I the dis still series once streets a wit charitable - constitue series merveilleuse absurdité that foreign editors we acclaimed concoctée . 
the senator Stewart me has accused he rereads has few years of wheel the spirit of a mandarin . 
i cannot think not that what authorized true . 
even if what the guardian fell part , I me inclinerais certainly appeared the senator Kirby , car I cannot serais same not streets Act same ligue that wouldn at bearer regard . 
however , I think wheel acquis suffisamment of experience yeas understand something something at the spirit mandarin and even at the spirit policy . 
bye a moment rose , something a is arrivé and has said : " Comme we cannot awakened that robs of time Parliamentary at our provision , collons these two bills of Bill together . " 
puis til procéda , électroniquement well course , at the couper - coller . 
what is analyzed that the bill to Bill has been constitué . 
what is always Act same cause , the same motif , at savoir Act commodité of the executive at laquelle them prérogatives of the Parliament acclaimed been maintes and maintes once subordonnées since 30 years and who , at mon humble opinion , has transformé Act House of them Commons fell series exodus coquille vacuum . 
what is very regrettable . 
i cannot know not very well if we , the what side - ci , devrions pursue unabated question . 
the one side , I me dis that we devons really prendre Position Act to them things of what kind , by principle . 
the one another side , I me dis that at the another place , he remembered is past tellement of time that they acclaimed same oublié fell whereupon pouvaient well consister their prérogatives and that , run they not apply fell soucient not , why devrions - we ourselves fell soucier ? 
i vais however profiter of the opportunity yeas consult condolences colleagues afin of determine whether , at a stadium ultérieur of the debate , we voudrons pursue Act question . 
the senator Graham apply souviendra certainly the foreign nombreux examples of bills of Bill divisés by the Senate . 
when I siégeais of the side ministériel and that I étais responsible for the ACOA , I avais presented a bill to Bill visant at create unabated agence and the other agences , whose health Corporation - development of the Cape - Cape . 
he rereads Partnerships of them provisions who faces regroupaient very well , but mon ami the senator Graham and the Leader of his party at the époque , the senator MacEachen , specialist certaines reserves . 
a message has been sent at Act House of them Commons yeas him make savoir that we avions divisé the bill to Bill fell two , and the rest . 
i voulais souligner confirms , honourable senators , even if what not is that at title informatif , because that he remembered notional of series question of principle . 
the bill to Bill guardian the bill to Bill C - 54 lors of health first session of health présente législature . 
he is death at the Paper Questions the phase of the report at the moment of health prorogation and has been ressuscité at the beginning of unabated nouvelle session . 
what that I ai at say Act the bill to Bill C - 6 and based them testimony entendus by foreign committees has trait fell grande part at them deliberations Act the bill to Bill C - 54 . 
the afternoon what that I ai avoided constater , business parties 2 at 5 , authorized levels parties Act the trade électronique , not soulèvent aucune objection of principle . 
health controversy , if I dispel really parler of controversy , complements mostly of health part 1 , based Act protection of health life privacy . 
confirms illustre them problems which surgissent when the snakes décide of souder two bills of Bill No. 
he remembered could very well that foreign witnesses , business other parties intéressées and Oceans legislators of the another place aient accordé too little of attention at them parties 2 at 5 . God knows that these parties are importantes . 
thin renvoient , between other , at the system judicial , authorized levels courts , the right , business statements Subcommittee oath and the rest . 
he remembered could that , puisque Act part 1 prête davantage at controversy , business parties 2 at 5 aient been examinées fell surface only activist by foreign parties intéressées that by foreign legislators . 
i the répète , what is là a problem susceptible of surgir when til fonde two bills of Bill fell a odyssey . 
fell what who pertains Act part 1 , and condolences observations of today today apply limiteront yeas Act plupart at unabated part , that he me authorized licences of express mon grandfather préjugé favorable . 
i am a ardent défenseur of health protection of health life privacy . 
confirms is indissociable of health dignity of the individu . 
health Act Act Act protection of health life privacy protège the individu against blunt atteinte at dapper life privacy who serait the fact of the government federal or the Government series of ses agences . 
unabated bill is effective . 
bye what that I sache , she the has always been . 
we cannot avions not before today today to Bill yeas protect them information personnels recueillis streets a context commercial . 
i brevity the government ' wheel comblé unabated lacune . 
he fell guardian time and I there souscris without contingency . 
i ose espérer that he arranged tenu account the Government soutien that we comptons apporter at unabated initiative - I believe power parler at the name of them senators ' what side - ci of health House - and that everyone what that I pourrai say at his topic , who serait susceptible of mood yeas of them criticism , arranged perçu at Act favour of our agreed with what text who protège them information personnels recueillis at the foreign purposes commerciales . 
bye bearer regard , I cannot takers not to inconvénient , at the contrary to certaines persons , at what that the commissioner at Act protection of health life privacy jouisse of some powers . 
i cannot believe not that these powers soient excessifs . 
i estimated that royal life privacy of the individu regardless at a standpoint tel that the Parliament doit aller until - là , run he the tangibly , yeas Act protect . 
i observe fell passant that royal structure of the bill to Bill has done the objet of certaines criticism . 
the Printed 1 she - even derogation series combination of them aspects obligatoires - what who doit perhaps fact - and the foreign aspects souhaitables - what who may and should perhaps fact . 
transport lawyers who acclaimed examined carefully what Bill of Bill and who acclaimed préparé of them findings écrites Act what topic acclaimed affirmé that what serait very difficult and that what that the snakes aurait owed make , and that the snakes should always make , serait of inclure toutes them provisions obligatoires comprises streets unabated Printed streets the corps of health law , not gardant that foreign aspects possibles or souhaitables streets the Printed . 
i raises Act question at the intent of the committee . 
if confirms can permettre of improving the bill to Bill , activist better . 
til has done to them représentations at Act House réclamant series exemption générale . 
i cannot prise not much of kind of asking . 
he is possible however , streets some domaines , and gerrymandering of health health me complements immediately at the spirit , that the snakes puisse ask a treatment particular fell vertu of health law , and I there reiterate more later . 
commentator I the ai already said , I cannot am not very favorable at what kind of asking for exemption . 
fell fact , I cannot am not certain of Welfare of agreement with certaines of them exemptions already contenues streets the bill to Bill at the hour actuelle . 
i query everything particularly attirer your attention Act the alinéa 4 ) 2 ) c ) at Act part 1 , who introduces that unabated part not apply applies not : 
... at series organization at the hook of them information personnels that she recueille , utilise or communique at the foreign purposes journalistiques , artistiques or littéraires and at aucune another end . 
i parlerai of thanking of them purposes artistiques or littéraires . 
the whereupon apply notional - he ? 
confirms not you seems he not perhaps series definition extremely vague ? 
i believe that she the is . 
perhaps - til Act specifying a little ? 
we devrions at everything the least try . 
when Act question has been soulevée during the study of the committee of health House of them Commons , he has been underlined at the surveillance of a exposé that without unabated exemption , business docudrames palatable perhaps contraires at Act bill . 
you savez what that are them docudrames , honourable senators . 
they admits a mixture of facts and the fiction . 
they are intéressants at regarder , but they devraient can - perhaps perhaps régis by series bill to what kind . 
til not should perhaps - perhaps not them exempter systematically . 
i believe that royal question deserves the perhaps approfondie . 
yeas what who is the Government exemption regarding Casual information personnels recueillis at the foreign purposes journalistiques , health reason yeas laquelle unabated exemption is prévue is very simple : if she never existait not and that what Bill of Bill guardian adopted , he serait contesté , and fort probably with success , fell vertu of health Charter canadienne of them rights and freedoms fell invoquant the right to apply express , health freedom of press . 
what is probably true . 
however , confirms raises series question streets mon spirit : why Act Charter canadienne of them rights and freedoms not introduces - she not Act protection of the right at Act life privacy , what who mettrait what right Act the same plan that foreign rights relatifs at Act freedom of health press ? 
i think that he is regrettable that royal Charter canadienne of them rights and freedoms not prévoie not series telle protection . 
permettez - moi of give at them honourable senators few information on Order historic . 
he rereads has long - confirms , fell 1979 , the government Trudeau , by the intermédiaire of his Minister of health Howe of Robbie , Rand Jean Chr , prit the commitment , streets a énoncé of principles constitutionnels , that the right at Act life privacy serait the one of them rights that the government federal proposerait of inscrire streets series future Charter of them rights and freedoms . 
when the opportunity fut venue of the make during Act period which has conduit at Act Constitution of 1982 , what same government , réincarné Subcommittee series form différente after 1980 , run is défilé . 
Koppel . Chr guardian of nouveau Minister of health Howe . 
transport honourable senators apply souviendront that a committee Joint of health House of them Commons and the Government Senate has examined the bill to canadianisation of health Constitution and , more particularly , the ébauche of health Charter of them rights and freedoms . 
transport coprésidents étaient the senator Harry Hays , the father of our colleague , and Serge Joyal , who guardian Robbie MP . 
transport members Conservatives and néo - démocrates of the committee prirent the initiative of propose that the right at Act life privacy authorized sciences streets Act Charter . 
the senator Kirby apply fell souviendra . 
Koppel . Chr apply there opposa . 
his argument guardian that the concept of life privacy guardian too vague . 
fell outre , he guardian of opinion that royal life privacy serait suffisamment protégée by the article 7 , who door Act Act security of health human , and by the article 8 , regarding Casual fouilles , business perquisitions and Oceans saisies abusives , the Day Charter . 
whereupon that he fell authorized , the initiative of them Conservatives and the foreign néo - démocrates fut rejetée , at wrongly , I think . 
streets them negotiations on 1992 who acclaimed abouti at the Agreement - Charlottetown , the Present Commissioner at Act protection of health life privacy , Rand Bruce Phillips , is intervenu and has asked , with much of at - propos , that series Modified authorized apportée at Act Charter yeas that she garantisse the right at Act life privacy . 
streets their wisdom , business premiers ministers not the acclaimed not done . 
til said sometimes that we analyzed protected by foreign laws Act Act diffamation . 
he particulars that the foreign persons more versées streets the right that moi analysent unabated affirmation , but everything what that I dispel fell penser , what is that foreign media arresting imprimer or diffuser blunt the information that they the désirent Act no regardless who , pourvu that she soient vraie . 
authorized said fell passant , honourable senators , streets a term section paru streets the edition of the Globe Mail Mail of what morning , til parlait of them efforts that Cutbacks them historians yeas annuler the commitment that Sir Wilfrid Laurier Partnerships 3.26 streets Act bill yeas protect them data of the census . 
i know that the senator Milne has series opinion at what topic . 
number of historians veulent allegiances Act main Act to them data personnelles who acclaimed been communiquées Subcommittee on sceau of health confidentialité at them recenseurs since 1906 , I believe . 
transport historians soutiennent vigoureusement that he particulars lever unabated restriction . 
Koppel . Phillips , Commissioner at Act protection of health life privacy , soutient also vigoureusement that he not particulars not Act lever . 
permettez - moi of say that I am the agreement avecM. Phillips . 
if mon grandfather - father or mon footnotes - grandfather - father acclaimed release of them information personnels at the recenseur Act Act faith of the commitment commitments by Sir Wilfrid Laurier , I believe that he particulars adhere bearer commitment . 
commentator the Honourable Senator the has done remarquer , at the Canada , he is inexorable that a bill to Bill of what kind raises the foreign questions Constitutional , streets the meaning classic of them questions Act Act Division of them powers analyzed that the foreign questions fédérales - Provincial who are davantage of Order administratif . 
based Act question BNA , business opinions exprimées submariners of a extrême at the another , authorized to the application appropriée of the power Liberal fell matière of Commerce until at the affirmation voulant that the bill to Bill aille nettement au - delà of them skills of the Parliament federal . 
mon opinion of profane , that til prendra yeas what that she vaut , what who never is not much , correspond at celle that has exprimée the senator Kirby . 
i am the notice that what Bill of Bill introduces series application correcte and légitime of the power federal fell matière of Commerce ; the elsewhere , the senator Kirby has exposé with at - propos , commentator odyssey can the make a profane , certaines of them reasons who the expliquent . 
i ajouterai that at mon notice , the government federal not should not hesitate , commentator them governments the acclaimed fact streets the past , at invoquer what authority fell matière of Commerce . 
his existence is justifiée . 
fidèle at his habitude , the Association of the Bar Heritage has presented a témoignage little useful appeared the committee of health House of them Commons . 
faisant remarquer that some jurists specialist déclaré Act measure ultra vires , that the other senator specialist jugée perfectly conforme at them powers which we reviennent and that the other still specialist formulé series opinion apply situant between them two premières , the Association of the Bar Heritage concluait that toutes these positions étaient justifiées at them termes of health Constitution . 
the Association of the Bar Heritage apply étant dérobée , I think that the committee should , commentator the has proposed the senator Kirby , examiner at fond unabated question . 
we devons the And seriously . 
we devrions hear them expert . 
i believe that we pourrons we adresser at them senators who acclaimed more of connaissances and the experience that moi fell matière BNA . 
they arriveront can - perhaps even at modify the opinion that we awakened , the senator Kirby and moi , based unabated question , but I fell doubt . 
the Quebec is Act Gotcha province which protège really them information personnels recueillis at the foreign purposes commerciales . 
transport Quebecers bénéficient of series double protection puisque he existe a chapter of the Code Civil of the Quebec who protège them information personnels fell more of series Act Act Act protection of them information personnels . 
the senator Kirby not the has not mentioned , Robbie I the fais . 
durant them three premières years after Act Assent Royal , after Act proclamation , unabated bill apply appliquera only at them activities commerciales who relèvent of the government federal and at the trade interprovincial . 
what is not is that after three years that she apply appliquera at them activities commerciales at the intérieur of series province , and only if unabated province not has not adopted the bill équivalente . 
til apply request why the government apply gives everything what evil , account tenu of the assertion ferme of his power fell matière of Commerce , but I believe that what is infertility at the fact that the Quebec has already series bill and that the Alberta serait fell train of fell prepare series . 
i ajouterai that foreign ministers provinciaux of health Howe acclaimed all asked that what Bill of Bill authorized retiré . 
commentator I the ai said , I believe that what is aller too loin . 
fell more of health issue BNA , til has soulevé the problem of the ambiguïté and the Day confusion who arresting régner streets them provinces who acclaimed their own bill , commentator the Quebec . 
we aurons Robbie Act bill fédérale , who faces appliquera at them activities commerciales relevant to the federal and at the trade interprovincial , and health law provinciale , who faces appliquera at them activities commerciales at the intérieur of health province . 
he arranged can - perhaps more difficult that til the think of make Act distinction between these various activities . 
that is - what who is interprovincial and that is - what who is intraprovincial ? 
damned bill apply appliquera , health law fédérale or health law provinciale ? 
he risk of there wheel of them difficulties administratives , the foreign ambiguïtés and the foreign équivoques . 
transport problems administratifs arresting always perhaps surmontés . 
the senator Kirby , a mandarin , appuierait certainly unabated assertion , but them ministers provinciaux , commentator I the ai said , laughed asked that the bill to Bill authorized retiré , and I believe that they devraient perhaps entendus yeas that til tente of them rassurer or , if what is possible , the respond at their concerns . 
the senator Kirby has spoke of the sector of them care of health . 
Koppel . Manley , the minister of the Industry , who has parrainé what Bill of Bill at the another place , believes that he has answered at them concerns exprimées at the moyen of a subamendment that he has présentéle 15 October , if I cannot me abuse . 
the afternoon them information that I ai , business representatives of the sector of them care of health who acclaimed exprimé of telles concerns not are not to the everything convaincus that til has there responded . 
the Association dentaire canadienne has passed series Position enough ferme at bearer regard . 
what not is perhaps - perhaps not autant the case of them doctors and the foreign hospitals , but they acclaimed all presented the foreign mémoires and we devrons hear what that they acclaimed at say lors of the study of the bill to Bill fell committee . 
the Association canadienne of them care of health is particularly inquiète at what topic . 
transport relations doctor - patient not are not to nature " commerciale " , according Act definition utilisée streets what Bill of Bill , anguishes celles can - perhaps with them pharmacies and the other pourvoyeurs of care of health . 
the Association canadienne of them care of health has obtenu a notice legal very détaillé and , I screwed , very dévastateur . 
he complements of a cabinet of lawyers of Montreal and health human who has written Act letter of accompagnement has commitments Act peine of make remarquer that foreign lawyers who specialist worked at unabated question specialist all occupé , at title of volunteers , the importants positions streets of them hospitals and the foreign associations of care of health , and cetera . 
transport senators who faces intéressent at what Bill of Bill , and mostly who acclaimed the intent of prendre share at the study of what Bill of Bill fell committee , repositories absolument lire bearer notice legal . 
i cannot am not to agree with ceux who pensent that we devrions simply exclure them care of health and the sector of them care of health . 
bye mon notice , we devrions reconsidérer Act possibility of accorder at bearer important sector series place spéciale streets Act bill . 
commentator I the ai said , I ai the intent , personally or by the intermédiaire of condolences agents , the their parler and the écouter what that they acclaimed at say . 
i reiterate Act unabated question when I mettrai end at condolences remarques , the 16 November . 
after these remarques préliminaires , honourable senators , I move : adjournment of the debate . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Murray , the debate is adjourned . ) 
health Act Act the casier judicial 
bill to Bill Amend - Second Reading - Adjourned of the debate 
he remembered notional of a bill to Bill important , étant rose that he traite of the improvement of health safety of our children and the celle of other persons vulnerable . 
however , he arrive that we soyons streets the obligation to And a grandfather number of measures legislatures importantes . 
he vaut therefore Act peine of bye them summarizing elements and goals of the bill to Bill No. 
the thanking and before everything , business changes auront yeas effect of accroître Act security of the public . 
thin rendront accessible , yeas end of sober at the surveillance of the filtrage , the casier judicial of them délinquants sexuels who bénéficient of series réhabilitation and who faces portent candidates at the foreign positions comportant series situation of trust . 
analyzed , a " indicateur " arranged placé streets the system of them casiers judiciaires when a offender sexuel fera the objet of series réhabilitation and that his file arranged scellé . 
confirms signifie that when a body which apply occupies of children voudra connaître them offender of nouveaux employees , volunteers or rémunérés , business offender of a candidate who has already commis series offence of Nature sexual and at which has been granted series réhabilitation , not passeront not inaperçus . 
little of things are also troublantes that the idea that ceux who faces attaquent at the foreign children innocent arresting find refuge streets series organization where these children devraient apply sentir fell security and protected . 
we savons pourtant that confirms is already arrivé . 
the bill to Bill ajoute series weapon at our arsenal yeas help at prévenir these incidents . 
fell outre , the bill to Bill fera four things . 
everyone of thanking , he rendra more clear and renforcera the system of réhabilitation fell prévoyant Act révocation immediate of health réhabilitation blocks that he rereads fingertips condamnation yeas what that til appelle series offence Joint , what is - at - say series offence who may perhaps poursuivie authorized by voie of implementation fell accusation , authorized by voie of statement summarizing the culpability . 
deuxièmement , the candidate who faces is seen refuser Act réhabilitation devra wait at the least one 2000 before the power introduce series nouvelle request . 
troisièmement , business calls at Act commission fell case of refusal or the révocation apply feront normally by wrote sideshow , at least that royal Commission national of them libérations conditionnelles not accorde series audience . 
quatrièmement , the bill to Bill indiquera more clearly that royal réhabilitation has yeas effect of sceller the file and non - effacer the fact that he rereads has strokes condamnation . 
well that toutes these measures soient importantes fell thin - mêmes , I query me concentrer primarily Act Act question of health réhabilitation of them délinquants sexuels . 
health Act Act the casier judicial établit a system of réhabilitation yeas them Veterans délinquants who acclaimed démontré that they menaient dorénavant series life rangée . 
fell vertu of unabated bill , the casier judicial of them délinquants can perhaps scellé apply they obtiennent their réhabilitation auprès of health Commission national of them libérations conditionnelles . 
he regardless of not not forget that the scellage not efface not Act condamnation , not more than he not purge the casier judicial . 
health condamnation is after everything a fact avéré . 
the casier judicial can perhaps réouvert Act Act request for the Solicitor General , when what is streets the interest of health justice or the Day security national . 
honourable senators , health réhabilitation not is not granted fingertips . 
she the is sideshow if series human has done Evidence of series conduct irréprochable and not has not perpétré of crime during series period prolongée . 
streets the case of offences punissables Act statement summarizing the culpability , he is necessary to make Evidence of series conduct irréprochable during three years , after wheel purgé dapper peine . 
the bill to Bill C - 7 précise clearly that confirms inclut the payment of amendes . 
streets the case of mood criminals more graves , health period of attente is the five years . 
health Commission national of them libérations conditionnelles doit confirm that the demandeur has done Evidence of series conduct irréprochable during blunt unabated period . 
before the accorder series réhabilitation , til consulte Act police of toutes them communities where has lived the demandeur at the surveillance of them five dernières years . 
he regardless of savoir that royal vast majority of them réhabilités continuent of adhere Act bill . 
since 28 years , nearly of a quart of million for réhabilitations acclaimed been accordées and , the what number , only a little more of 6 40,000 acclaimed been révoquées at cause of series nouvelle offence . 
confirms represents a rate of success of more of 97p. cent . 
the bill to Bill C - 7 door primarily Act them délinquants sexuels , who are a petit Subcommittee - group of the most grandfather group of them candidates at Act réhabilitation . 
the Department of the Solliciteur General has recently estimé that at the surveillance of them 28 dernières years , 4 200 délinquants sexuels specialist obtenu series réhabilitation . 
seuls 114 of these délinquants , authorized 2,6p. cent , laughed seen their réhabilitation révoquée yeas wheel commis series another agression sexual . 
these estimations montrent that , fortunately , odyssey a petit number of délinquants sexuels réhabilités présentent the risk of récidiver . 
however , also petit what number authorized - he , he is important to reduce what risk at the level the most bas possible . 
the bill to Bill C - 7 we aidera at the make . 
the bill to Bill C - 7 prend appui Act to them measures which acclaimed already been prises yeas protect them children and other persons vulnerable . 
analyzed , a not important has been done fell 1994 , when til has created the Système attain of filtrage . 
what system richly Act the Centre of information on health police canadienne , the CIPC or , fell English , CPIC . 
thanks at the CIPC , business organizations acclaimed access at the foreign information which their permettent of éliminer them agresseurs sexuels of children of their listes of candidates at the foreign positions who them amèneraient at travailler auprès of children . 
health creation of what system has done subsequently at the vastes consultations auprès of bodies of services at them children , the authorities scolaires and the responsables of services Cultural , the bodies volunteers reassess that foreign Clubs of garçons and girls of the Canada , business Lakes Frères and Oceans Grandes S9urs , Bénévoles Canada , analyzed that royal police and the foreign agencies of assistance at them victims . 
these agencies acclaimed said that royal vérification of the casier judicial guardian a élément important to a process of filtrage more approfondi . 
the Système attain of filtrage is the fruit of health collaboration between them agencies of services at them children , business circles policiers , the Centre of information on health police canadienne , analyzed that foreign departments of the Solliciteur General , the Day Health and the Day Howe . 
the Système attain of filtrage has rose to bons results . 
the bill to Bill C - 7 améliorera the Système attain of filtrage fell corrigeant series faiblesse who has been décelée . 
fell effect , the file of a offender sexuel réhabilité can échapper at the attention at the surveillance of series vérification of usage auprès of the Centre of information on health police canadienne , or CIPC , at the foreign purposes of filtrage . 
streets the état Present of them things , the Solicitor General has the power to reopen the file of a offender réhabilité and the Government communiquer at the foreign purposes compatibles with the administration of health justice , notamment yeas the filtrage . 
commentator them dossiers of what kind are éliminés of the system of the CIPC and conservés at share streets series basic of data scellée , they not apparaissent not at the moment of series research of usage . 
what system of protection , what is exactly what that VI Act Act Act the casier judicial . 
streets Act plupart of them case , solemn , these dossiers devraient perhaps invisibles when he rereads has réhabilitation . 
however , when series human pose dapper candidature at a station of trust and that his file door at croire that he rereads aurait a level accru of risk yeas series category précise of persons vulnerable , series exception is justifiée . 
transport ministers of health Howe and Oceans solliciteurs généraux federal , provinciaux and territorial apply are all entendus Act what standpoint lors of their rencontre fell October 1998 . 
a group of work of hauts officials has examiné them afford to better protect them children and has submitted ten recommendations fell what sense at them ministers concernés . 
these ten recommendations acclaimed toutes been adoptées and are fell train of Welfare mises fell application . 
he has been proposed , between other , that foreign dossiers of them délinquants sexuels rose fact the objet of series réhabilitation soient rendus accessibles yeas the filtrage of them candidates at the foreign positions of trust . 
the Solicitor General of the Canada , with the appui of health minister of health Howe , has sparked lors of health meeting of 1998 - determine the meilleur moyen of the make fell consultation with all ses counterparts provinciaux . 
the bill to Bill C - 7 guardian Act next phase logical . 
commentator I the ai fact remarquer more earlier , he introduces that , when the snakes retirera of the CIPC the file of a offender sexuel subsequently at dapper réhabilitation , til laissera at Act place a indicateur . 
some diront that unabated measure paving at the encontre of the objective fondamental of health Act Act the casier judicial and what is series préoccupation sérieuse , well heard . 
we voulons that the system of réhabilitation works well . 
however , he remembered notional of series exception circonscrite and limitée who , according moi , run justifie . 
transport ministers of health Howe of all levels governments acclaimed supported what principle . 
if we cannot prenons not unabated measure , we risquons of subir them consequences possibles of health réhabilitation who aiderait a prédateur sexuel at apply frayer a chemin toward a station of trust auprès of children or the other persons vulnerable . 
he arranged interdit by Act bill and by Act policy of the CIPC of apply serve the what code without Authorized . 
he faudra always obtain the consent of the demandeur , and what last fingertips always the choice of withdraw dapper request apply he not souhaite not divulguer his file at the body which procède at the filtrage . 
yeas apply ensure that the demandeur is identifié with exactitude , til joindra ses empreintes digitales at Act request for levée of them scellés Act the file visé by Act réhabilitation . 
finally , the Solicitor General devra convenir that royal divulgation of the casier is justifiée . 
til précisera them offences sexuelles who pourront perhaps signalées analyzed that foreign factors who uncovered commitments fell considération by the Solicitor General yeas decide to the opportunité of desceller the file . 
honourable senators , you you rappelez can - perhaps that the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional has tenu a very bon debate Act what who guardian Robbie the bill to Bill C - 69 durant and after Act appearance of the Solicitor General fell June last and at the opportunity to series postponement very productive fell September . 
i voudrais souligner Act contribution very constructive of the senator Nolin . 
the committee guardian particularly intéressé by foreign définitions of children and the other persons vulnerable and by the identification précise of health list of them offences sexuelles whose he is question streets what Bill of Bill No. 
i am persuadée that the excellent work of the committee arranged useful at the Senate when the committee examinera at nouveau what Bill of Bill , who is now the bill to Bill C - 7 . 
he is important to reconnaître that the bill to Bill C - 7 complements apply add at the foreign measures already prises by the government yeas improve Act protection of them children . 
these provisions répondent at Act recommendation unanimous of them ministers of them provinces and the foreign territories . 
thin acclaimed received the appui unanimous of all levels parties at the another place . 
thin are compatibles , I believe , with Act préoccupation commune that acclaimed all levels Members , celle of make everything what who is possible yeas protect our children and Oceans adults vulnerable of them prédateurs sexuels who chercheraient at their causer of the wrongly . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Kinsella , at the name of the senator Nolin , the debate is adjourned . ) 
the Comité of selection 
passage of the fourth report 
the Senate proceeded at the study of the fourth report of the Comité of selection ( composition of various committees ) , presented at the Sénatle 3 November 1999 . - ( Le hon. Senator Mercier ) . 
the Honourable Léonce Mercier : 
honourable senators , I move : Adopted of what report . 
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud ( His Honour the Speaker Acting ) : 
honourable senators , you plaît - he ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée , and the report is passed . ) 
transport Canadians éminents and their role at the Kingdom - Kingdom 
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate 
the Honourable Anne C . Cools , rose rose notice the 2,500 November 1999 : 
that she attirera the attention of the Senate Act : 
has ) Senators persons nées at the Canada who acclaimed sat at Act House of them Commons to the Kingdom - Kingdom , there including the natif of the Ontario Edward Blake , Minister of health Howe of the Canada ' 1875 at 1877 and chief of the Party Liberal of the Canada ' 1880 at 1887 , the natif of the Brunswick - Brunswick the very hon. Bonar Law , Prime Minister of the Kingdom - Kingdom of 1922 at 1923 , and the natif of the Ontario Sir Bryant Irvine , Vice - chairman of health House of them Commons to the Kingdom - Kingdom of 1976 at 1982 ; 
b ) Senators persons nées at the Canada who acclaimed sat at Act House of them Lords of the Kingdom - Kingdom , there including the trèshon. Richard B . Bennett , Prime Minister of the Canada ' 1930 at 1935 , and lord Beaverbrook , Minister of the Kingdom - Kingdom fell 1918 and the 1940 at 1942 ; 
c ) Senators Britanniques of birth nés at the Kingdom - Kingdom or streets them dominions and colonies who acclaimed sat at the Senate and at Act House of them Commons to the Canada , there including the trèshon. John Turner , Prime Minister fell 1984 and chief of the Opposition libérale of 1984 at 1990 , and moi - even , Senator noire fell fiscal Manitoulin streets them Antilles britanniques ; 
d ) Senators persons of citizenship canadienne who acclaimed fact part of the Council private of the Kingdom - Kingdom , there including individuals premiers ministers of the Canada , business judges fell Opposition of health Court Supreme and some ministers Airports whose the Leader of the government at the Senate to 1921 at 1930 and the 1935 at 1942 , the trèshon. Senator Raoul Dandurand , who has been appointed at the Council private of the Kingdom - Kingdom fell 1941 ; 
e ) Act resolution Nickle of 1919 , series motion of health House of them Commons to the Canada fell standpoint of series adresse at Majesty Majesty the roi George V , and Oceans propos that the Prime Minister R . B . Bennett has referendums fell 1934 at his topic : 
" what guardian also inefficace fell right that possible . 
nay only what guardian inefficace , but what guardian also , I regret to the say , a affront at the souverain him ? same . 
no regardless breaching lawyer of right constitutional or quiconque apply gives Act peine of And unabated question apply fell rend well account . " ; 
f ) Senators propos that the Prime Minister R . B . Bennett has referendums fell 1934 streets series letter at the Member J . R . MacNicol : 
" activist that I resterai citizen of the Empire britannique and loyal topic of the roi , I dissenting reconnaître at the souverain Act prerogative of reconnaître them services of ses subjects . " 
g ) Senators nombreux distingués Canadians who acclaimed since 1919 received from them honneurs of the roi or the Day reine of the Canada , there including the élévation at the Order of health chevalerie fell 1934 of Sir Lyman Duff , Judge fell Opposition of health Court Supreme of the Canada , fell 1935 of Sir Ernest MacMillan , musicien , fell 1986 - Sir Bryant Irvine , Parliamentary , fell 1994 of Sir Neil Shaw , industriel , and fell 1994 of Sir Conrad Swan , advisor to the Prime Minister Pearson at the topic of the flag attain of the Canada ; 
1:30 ) Senators nombreux distingués Canadians who acclaimed received 646 honneurs and décorations of souverains étrangers non britanniques and non Airports between 1919 and February 1929 ; 
i ) Act Position legal and BNA of them Canadians to birth and the citizenship regarding their aptitude or their inaptitude at sit at Act House of them Lords and either at Act House of them Commons to the Kingdom - Kingdom , notamment them Canadians domiciliés at the Kingdom - Kingdom and jouissant of health double citizenship of the Canada and the Government Kingdom - Kingdom ; 
j ) Act Position legal and BNA of them Canadians domiciliés at the country or at the abroad regarding their right to recevoir of them honneurs and the foreign distinctions of their own souverain , health reine Elizabeth II of the Canada , analyzed that their right to recevoir of them honneurs and the foreign distinctions of souverains other than the their , there including the souverain of health France , the honour to the Ordre royal of health Légion of honour ; 
k ) Senators honneurs , business distinctions and Oceans décorations who never are not héréditaires commentator Act pairie at life , the élévation at the Order of health chevalerie and Oceans ordres military and the chevalerie ; 
l ) Act recommendation by the Prime Minister britannique Tony Blair at Majesty Majesty Act reine Elizabeth II Convey of appointing commentator member non héréditaire of health House of them Lords Conrad Black , a distingué publisher and entrepreneur Heritage and Colonel Honorary of them Governor General' Maclean Foot Guards of the Canada . 
perhaps honourable senators , I stares today today ' link historic and constitutional between the Canada and the Kingdom - Kingdom , business systems constitutional and Parliamentary analyzed that royal citizenship that we partageons . 
he not there has not if long , the mon vivant , he not there Partnerships not to distinction between Act citizenship britannique and health citizenship canadienne , well that royal sovereignty of the Canada ait découlé of a status particular the dominion . 
fell activist that person noire who has seen the day and who has been élevée until at the age of 13 years at Act Barbade , streets them Antilles britanniques and who has déménagé at the Canada , I ai lived unabated double experience . 
the foreign years later later , after wheel including that , commentator anglophone of origin britannique vivant at the Quebec , I cannot serais never series vraie Québécoise , I ai quitté the Quebec yeas the Ontario , what who fact of moi series réfugiée of chez them " pure laine " . 
i believe firmly that the snakes sape mon heritage and that I dois the make valoir and the defend . 
honourable senators , bon number of people at the country , there including the foreign ministers , préconisent the démantèlement of health monarchie BNA of the Canada . 
i qualifie what vandalisme constitutional of démolition of the Canada . 
they invoquent series prétendue impulsion democratic and popular at the encontre of the aristocratie , but their Appeal fell favour of the principle of health democracy is superficiel , creux and very transparent . 
they présentent the absolutisme at the public commentator apply he remembered agissait of the former absolutisme of them rois , everything fell faisant délibérément abstraction of the absolutisme Present of them Cabinets and the foreign courts of l' ère modern . 
these démolisseurs are fell situation of bankruptcy intellectuelle and morale . 
they induisent the public fell mistake because that the Canada not has never strokes of aristocratie or the structure policy aristocratique . 
bye Act difference of what who faces is past at the Kingdom - Kingdom , the aristocratie not has never done part of health structure social , economic , military or political of the Canada . 
the Canada , commentator nouveau peuplement , not has never connu of conditions payroll who acclaimed entraîné Act creation of structures aristocratiques . 
the Canada not has never réuni them conditions préalables at the établissement of the principle aristocratique , authorized the principle héréditaire connu fell England Subcommittee on appellation of Bill of health primogéniture , anguishes possédé Act structure aristocratique necessary yeas ensure Act protection of them persons and the foreign biens , authorized Act protection of health life and the Day freedom assurée by the aristocrate at ses vassaux fell contrepartie of their loyalty and the their services . 
bye the Kingdom - Kingdom , unabated structure aristocratique and political has yielding the not at the incorrigible of the time at a government with responsibility ministérielle , model that the Canada has passed blocks the beginning of his history by the entremise of the system of them parties political . 
ma culture policy apply inspire the genus monarchie BNA and the foreign institutions parliamentarians britanniques who acclaimed rose at them Antilles britanniques them more vieilles legislatures legislatures of the univers of health common law . 
these institutions parliamentarians acclaimed mené at the abolition of the trade of them esclaves fell 1807 and at the abolition of the slavery proprement said fell 1833 . 
the élément essentiel of a government ministériel responsible for the Parliament of health Queen is the duty to the cabinet of Majesty Majesty of find , with Act confidence of the Parliament , the foreign solutions political rather than légales , judiciaires or military at the foreign problems and at the foreign conflits humans . 
health policy is Act solution at Act plupart of them problems . 
the art of health policy is Act more grande contribution to our system britannique . 
health policy , what is also recommander and accorder of them appointments and the foreign décorations political . 
honourable senators , health Barbade is series vieille colonie whose the assemblée legislative , who has been établie fell 1639 , is Act more ancienne at the outside of the Kingdom -Uni. 
she contraste vivement with Act Speaking Haiti and Cuba the espagnole , who are toutes two - Provincial républiques and toutes two - Provincial colonies non britanniques . 
i am very attachée at the Parliament of health Queen and not veux of aucune institution républicaine yeas the Canada . 
i cannot aime not that the snakes move the make the Government Canada series république . 
i me there opposerai always , commentator I ai juré of the make . 
transport Canadians not are not least libres anguishes less independent that foreign citizens of not regardless damned république . 
what is series exodus tragedy that the foreign schools , the foreign institutions political and , mostly , the nombreux politicians refusent of préserver the magnificent heritage constitutional of the Canada . 
some acclaimed said that what guardian deplorable yeas a country . 
honourable senators , I fell viens now at Act prerogative of health Queen relatively at Act function who BNA at décerner of them reconnaissances , the foreign honneurs , the foreign distinctions and the foreign 209 . 
what is the ancienne prerogative of them souverains that the décerner of them honneurs at their subjects . 
inversement , business citizens - Provincial Canadians , fell the occurrence - acclaimed the right to recevoir of them honneurs of health share of their souveraine . 
fell outre , business Canadians who résident streets of other countries acclaimed the right to perhaps honorés by the souverain of these countries . 
fell case of duplicates sovereignty and citizenship , these Canadians acclaimed right at these benefits . 
confirms is vital fell unabated ère of mondialisation , that royal policy étrangère of our government has seconded vigoureusement . 
the desire to them humans of Welfare honorés by the other humans yeas of them accomplishments communautaires , tel that he is exprimé by series recognition of the souverain , is catalyst , noble and important . 
all ceux who faces are distingués Act Act scène policy , streets the industry , streets them Arts , streets Act collectivité , streets the service military , by the foreign mood of bravoure and streets all levels aspects of the service public partagent what desire universel of the timeless of not make that a with ses brothers and soeurs humans . 
telle is Act prerogative Royal , who sert at protect bearer aspect of health nature humaine and at the récompenser . 
our souveraine entretient series relationship spéciale with composite of ses subjects . 
everyone topic , fell vertu of unabated relationship spéciale , has right at Act justice , at the indulgence , at Act recognition , at Act protection and at Act peace - Status Queen . 
what is what that révèle the lexique . 
what right découle of unabated relationship spéciale between Act Queen and composite of ses subjects . 
unabated relationship is mystique and profondément personnelle because that she is ancrée streets series croyance and a ideal who faces appelle God , health Queen and health Nation . 
honourable senators , excusez - moi if I cannot ai not done to distinction between " pure ambition humaine " , " avidité " and need timeless of approval by dapper souveraine , health Source of them distinctions yeas them contributions at the course commun . 
i voulais say désirs honourable yeas of them honneurs . 
honourable senators , I parlerai now the Day resolution Nickle , who has been Proposed by William Folger Nickle , MP Conservative of Kingston , and adoptée at Act House of them Commons on 22 May 1919 . 
unabated motion , series motion of health House of them Commons sideshow apply adressant at Majesty Majesty George V , not has never been soumise at the agrément of the Senate . 
transport reasons political are claires and évidentes . 
she aurait been without nil doubt battue at plate couture because that foreign senators auraient vite saisi dapper signification policy and BNA . 
fell outre , she apply adressait at Majesty Majesty , and non at the Governor General of the Canada , who guardian Robbie the duc of Devonshire . 
she demandait at Majesty Majesty of not not honorer of them Canadians and apply lisait , fell substance , commentator suit : 
we [ ... ] approchons humblement Your Majesty , priant that he wouldn plaise : 
has ) the run abstenir dorénavant of conférer of them 209 of honour or the distinction at something a result vos subjects domiciliés or résident of ordinaire at the Canada [ ... ] 
b ) that she particulars them measures nécessaires , legislatures or other , yeas ensure the extinction of them 209 , dignités , distinctions - celle of pair of the royaume by example - at the Late of series human présentement domiciliée at the Canada or rose dapper residence habituelle Robbie that she jouissait of a title honorifique héréditaire [ ... ] 
honourable senators , ten years later later , fell 1929 , business Communes acclaimed tenu a another debate Act Act resolution Nickle . 
the 12 February 1929 , Charles Cahan , MP Conservative , has proposed that authorized constitué a committee Special of health House yeas make inquiry and report Act the opportunité of restreindre , modify or rescinder the adresse Nickle adoptée the 22 May 1919 . 
the Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King Partnerships déclaré streets what debate , commentator the rapportent them Debates of health House of them Commons to what day - là at Act page 78 : 
if we décidons of not not wheel of 209 honorifiques , the marques of distinction or the décorations at the Canada , soyons fidèles at the principle and not fell ayons not to the everything ; abolissons - Provincial completely ; but if them souverains or telecommunications chefs of other States are autorisés at décerner of them honneurs at the foreign Canadians , I estimated , understandings at moi , that we devons at our own souverain of him accorder unabated prerogative before all levels other . 
transport results of the vote commitments the 14 February Act Act motion deM. Cahan indiquent that the Prime Minister King and the Opposition of the Opposition conservatrice , Rand Richard B . Bennett , specialist all sides voted favorablement . 
... the government ' Majesty Majesty of the Canada is the notice that royal motion regarding Casual 209 honorifiques adoptée the 22 May 1919 , by a vote of health majority of health House of them Commons to the thirteenth Parliament ( which fut dissousle 4 October 1921 ) not oblige aucunement Majesty Majesty or the government ' Majesty Majesty at the Canada , or the ten - seventeenth Parliament of the Canada . 
fell of other termes , the text request at the souverain , by the moyen of series resolution of health House of them Commons , the cesser of exercer dapper prerogative at the Canada . 
nil group of mots not pouvait wheel less of effect , fell right . 
nay only he not Partnerships nil effect , but , I regret to wheel at Act constater , he constituait series injure at the souverain same . 
bye the topic of ses efforts fell standpoint of equation fell vigueur them recommendations at Majesty Majesty regarding health list of them décorations , the Prime Minister , streets the same speech , has added rejecting , at Act page 96 of the Hansard of them Communes : 
what is là the acte of the Prime Minister ; he doit fell assumer Act responsibility ; he doit also prendre Act him Act responsibility to wheel informé Act crown that royal resolution adoptée by Act House of them Commons is invalide and the nul effect fell what who regarde Act prerogative of the souverain . 
voilà who is raisonnablement clear at condolences yeux . 
honourable senators , at mon notice , everything éminent Quebecer who is pressenti yeas perhaps appointed at Act House of them Lords of the Kingdom - Kingdom or everything Quebecer pressenti by Majesty Majesty Act Queen yeas series recognition quelconque fact honour at the Canada . 
each once that a Quebecer is honoré , what is a grandfather honour yeas moi . 
what is a grandfather honour yeas we all . 
the Canada fell ressort grandi . 
i fell viens now àM. Conrad Black . 
honourable senators , recently , til has utilisé them mots " lord Almost " and " lord Nearly Nearly " yeas décrireM. Conrad Black . 
i know make Act distinction between what who is bon and what who is ridiculous . 
i know make Act distinction between series critique honnête and series critique humiliante . 
because queM. Black is a man rich , some trouvent bon of the couvrir of contemptuous commentator apply he guardian insensible . 
i believe queM. Conrad Black is a grandfather and éminent Quebecer . 
the world deM. Black not is not the mien . 
what not is not a world streets lequel I ai worked . 
his world is gerrymandering of health upper finance where the snakes prend of énormes risks financiers - Government world of the entrepreneuriat , the Day competition , the Government trade and the Day production of newspapers . 
what is a world that I diminishes , even if I cannot there am not directly mêlée . 
i am series libérale - series libérale at the meaning classic of the XIXe century . 
the libéralisme me has learned at adhere them persons who possèdent them caractéristiques nécessaires yeas create Act richesse and the foreign jobs yeas of other people . 
the libéralisme me has learned that the Employment of persons by the congruent privacy by Opposition referred the sector public is Act vraie measure of health richesse economic of series community . 
honourable senators , the aucuns acclaimed cru that royal more grande contribution at the world that Partnerships réalisée the libéralisme , fell activist that principle policy , guardian Act teachings that royal richesse pouvait perhaps créée and partagée by all and composite - that royal creation of health richesse and the fact of health posséder not étaient not assujettis at the principle of the hérédité , but rather at Act ability , the spirit of initiative , the energy and the effort to each perhaps timeless . 
the parcours deM. Black , who is born streets a milieu modest , represents a triomphe yeas the libéralisme and the principle Liberal . 
the same , the libéralisme , by Opposition referred the laissez - make , supposait that foreign governments interviennent Act them markets non only yeas protect Act life , the integrity and health competition , but also yeas give a filet of security social at them workers . 
Koppel . Black has created the Government employment yeas of them thousands of Canadians , what whose little of people arresting apply vanter . 
i diminishes confirms . 
he has also licences that he rereads ait of health competition Act the market - Provincial newspapers at the Canada . 
i am the notice that what is a honour yeas the Canada if the Prime Minister Tony Blair , the Government Kingdom - Kingdom , has recommended Act appointment deM. Black referred Act House of them Lords , at title of pair and the lord non héréditaire . 
he is regrettable that the Prime Minister Blair ait retiré dapper recommendation and I hope that he songera soon at réitérer Act recommendation deM. Black . 
his Honour the Speaker Acting : 
senator Cools , I dois you consigned that royal period of time which you is granted yeas make your statement is écoulée . 
however , you pourrez pursue if you fell demandez the Authorized and that celle - ci you is granted . 
the senator Cools : 
merci , Your Honour . 
i query wheel the Authorized to pursue . 
his Honour the Speaker Acting : 
the Authorized is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Cools : 
merci , honourable senators . 
transport magnats of health press lord Thompson etM. Black Cutbacks all levels two honour at the Canada , everything commentator the former prime minister John Turner . 
they témoignent all of them échanges who , during the foreign centuries , laughed licences at the foreign Canadians and at the foreign Britanniques , whose moi - even , Blancs and Noirs , the sit streets them two Houses of the Parliament , at the Canada and Kingdom -Uni. 
honourable senators , business attitudes and Oceans motivations Resources are mystérieuses , everything commentator Act fragilité humaine . 
confirms fact part of health condition humaine . 
the spirit timeless is a roublard and health motivator his complice . 
unabated faiblesse of health condition humaine me has been révélée of way poignante streets a section Act Act méfiance and health méchanceté deM. Nickle , who has been rédigé by a member of dapper family , James Travers . 
streets a section paru streets the edition of the 14 September 1999 of the Toronto Star and who parlait of health bataille deM. Black yeas the obtention of the subheading of pair , Rand Travers wrote : 
streets a access to dépit and fell the absence of the Prime Minister of the époque , Robert Border , Nickle has presented at blunt steamship dapper resolution at Act House of them Commons after wheel échoué at make conférer the subheading of chevalier at Daniel Gordon , the recteur of the University Queen' Maclean and his beau - father ... 
yeas apply venger , Nickle has voulu apply ensure that the other not palatable not obtain what that til Partnerships refused at dapper family . 
dapper resolution demandant that the roi apply abstienne of décerner of them 209 at the foreign résidents Airports has been adoptée by blunt Act House emportée by the opinion Public that he not partageait not . 
health tricherie of Nickle is Act cause of a certain embarras streets Act family , puisque W . F . Nickle guardian the beau - father of health s9ur of ma grandfather - mother . 
the Honourable Joan Fraser : 
honourable senators , I ai series question at poser and , if the senator Cools me the allows , series rectification at apporter . 
i cannot think not that quiconque puisse deny them accomplishments deM. Black streets the field of the edition . 
however , if you étudiez them états financiers of them businesses that he control , you constaterez that the number of jobs has diminué and non augmenté streets them newspapers that he control , since that he fell has done the acquisition . 
ma question pertains Act nature of them distinctions that , the afternoon the senator , he serait approprié that the foreign Canadians acceptent of health share of governments étrangers . 
he rereads has series difference between them distinctions purement honorifiques , commentator the subheading of chevalier or health Légion of honour , and celles who Cutbacks of gerrymandering who the receives a législateur of a country abroad . 
health House of them Lords is series assemblée legislative . 
she never gave can - perhaps not autant of power that our Senate , but we analyzed assurément well placés yeas savoir that what not is not series something futile that the perhaps législateur . 
the Honourable Senator voit - she series difference between them two types of distinction and estimated she that he rereads has instead of them considérer différemment , étant rose that series cinquantaine of years acclaimed past since that series human active streets the sector Heritage of them media has accepted Act dignity of pair ? 
i observance by example queM. Kenneth Thompson has jugé déplacé of reprendre the subheading of his father at the Late of lord Thompson . 
the senator Cools : 
i thank the Honourable Senator of dapper question . 
fell what who pertains them honneurs and Oceans governments étrangers , I tiens at specifying that I cannot considère not Act reine of England commentator a government abroad . 
i cannot saurais too insister là - dessus . 
she is Act Queen of the Canada , ma reine . 
when I ai fact mon entrée at the Senate fell 1984 , after wheel been escortée the term of unabated allée , I ai overburdened health main Act Act Bible and I ai prêté oath , and what is at unabated reine that I ai prêté the oath of allégeance . 
health Queen of the Canada not is not a government abroad . 
i ai can - perhaps evil saisi them propos of the Honourable Senator . 
if what is the case , I him saurais gré of apporter of other Particulars . 
the foreign honneurs are conférés everything the time . 
he rereads has the foreign Canadians who siègent streets of them legislatures legislatures everywhere streets the world . 
the Honourable Senator apply souviendra surely the genus rencontre of the IPU , at laquelle we awakened attended toutes them two he rereads has few months , and where I ai rencontré of them citizens Airports who siègent at the foreign legislatures legislatures of some countries baltes , I believe . 
health House of them Lords is a parlement , not series assemblée legislative , and he rereads has series enormous difference between series assemblée legislative and a parlement . 
health House of them Lords is series vieille institution . 
she is series of them more anciennes of the world . 
what is perhaps - perhaps because that much of condolences friends proches acclaimed sat at Act House of them Lords , but I appartiens at the group of them Canadians who éprouvent much of respect yeas unabated House . 
til me has enseigné , when I étais petite daughter , at Act Barbade , that when everything the rest Partnerships échoué , he restait always Act possibility of fell appeler at Act House of them Lords . 
i cannot participe not at the movement who voudrait that the snakes circulation disparaître at brève échéance them chambres hautes , there including health House of them Lords . 
finalement , yeas what who is the foreign honneurs , I dirai that they are innombrables . 
he rereads has the foreign honneurs who confèrent of them 209 and the other not . 
he rereads has the foreign honneurs who créent of them precedents , the other not . 
he rereads has the foreign honneurs who confèrent a rang , the other not . 
he rereads has blunt series gamme of honneurs . 
i invite the senator at apply unir at moi yeas formuler series proposal Convey Act the study of them 209 honorifiques and the admissibilité of them Canadians at these 209 . 
streets unabated ère modern where the snakes confère of them 209 héréditaires , I cannot think not that Majesty Majesty confère too of 209 héréditaires at the Canada . 
i cannot ai not succeeded at fell find the nouveaux . 
i ai énuméré a number incalculable of 209 of chevaliers streets condolences remarques . 
transport examples which me are immediately flocked at the spirit are manifestement lord Thompson him ? same and , well heard , the ex - Prime Minister of the Canada , Rand R . B . Bennett , who , commentator we the savons , has been appointed vicomte fell 1941 . 
manifestement , til embrouille them things . 
the fact is queM. Black has been recommended yeas Act pairie at life and he remembered notional , according moi , the genus noble aspiration . 
( Act Act motion of the senator LeBreton , the debate is adjourned . ) 
routine Foreign 
Authorized at the committee of retenir of them services 
the Honourable John B . Stewart , pursuant at the avisdu 2 November 1999 , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign authorized habilité at retenir them services of advisors , techniciens , employees of office or other elements nécessaires yeas examiner them bills of Bill , health seams of bills of Bill and Oceans forecasts budgétaires who him acclaimed been déférés . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
Authorized at the committee of make diffuser ses deliberations by foreign media of information électroniques 
the Honourable John B . Stewart , pursuant at the avisdu 2 November 1999 , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign authorized habilité at permettre the reportage of ses deliberations translated by foreign media of information électroniques , fell dérangeant the least possible ses travaux . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
( the Senate apply ajourne at the Tuesday 16 November 1999 , at 14 hours . ) 
debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
2e Session , Session Session , 
volume 138 , Issue 7 
the Tuesday 16 November 1999 
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker 
table of them Contents 
STATEMENTS STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
health Act to 1968 amend the right pénal 
the trentième anniversary of his Adopted 
the révérend father Emile Shoufani 
the group of expert Act the access at them data historiques of the census 
health Act Act them languages Languages 
the trentième anniversary of dapper proclamation 
the program of exchange of pages with Act House of them Commons 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
the budget of them Estimates for 1999 - 2000 
depository of the budget Supplementary ( A ) 
transport community francophones and acadiennes hors Quebec 
depository of the report Act Act détérioration of them services fell French 
the adjournment 
the budget of them Estimates for 1999 - 2000 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee of them finances nationales at And the budget Supplementary ( A ) 
notice of Motion Convey referred to the credit 25a at the committee Joint Standing of them languages Languages 
notice of Motion Convey referred to the credit 10a at the committee Joint Standing of health Library of the Parliament 
routine Foreign 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at Extend Act date of Tabled of his report final sur la Modified of the mandate of the Organization of the Traité of the Atlantic North 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
the Solicitor General 
the Correctional Heritage of the Intelligence of security - Possibility loss of documents classifiés - Ex review of the committee of monitoring of them activities of the Intelligence of security 
health justice 
health possibility of protect davantage them people against Act violence 
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire 
health crisis Farm at the Manitoba and fell Saskatchewan - Possibility possibility of a program of credit Farm 
the Program of assistance fell case of catastrophe liée at the Income Farm - Ex effectiveness of the program 
the effectiveness of them programs of assistance - Possibility survival of them young farmers 
health crisis Farm at the Manitoba and fell Saskatchewan - Ex Program of assistance fell case of catastrophe liée at the Income Farm - Comments impotent versées at them demandeurs 
health crisis Farm at the Manitoba and fell Saskatchewan - Request for visit to the Prime Minister 
the Environment 
health Nova Scotia Nova Scotia Position responsibility to health décontamination of them sites of déchets toxiques - Request for Answer 
health Défense national 
the replacement of them helicopters Sea King - Possibility possibility of the credit - bail - Request for Answer 
answers delayed at the foreign questions Oral 
health defence national 
the West Nova Regiment - Possibility appointment of a Colonel Honorary 
transport Affairs Foreign 
the Insignia ambassador auprès of the Organization World of the trade - Possibility possibility of a contract of consultation with the employer of the former ambassador - Request for Tabling of documents 
transport Nations overseeing 
the désarmement nucléaire - Possibility policy of the government opposite at Act resolution of health York Agenda Coalition 
the development of them resources Resources 
transport efforts déployés yeas augmenter Act representation of them minorities visible 
orders OF THE 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
second reading - Continued of the debate 
bill to Bill of 1999 yeas Act implementation fell implementation of conventions fiscales 
second reading - Adjourned of the debate 
the speech of the trône 
motion of Adopted of the Adresse fell response - Continued of the debate 
bill to Bill Act Act Assent Royal 
second reading - Adjourned of the debate 
transport communaut francophones and acadiennes hors Quebec 
health détérioration of them services fell French - Interpellation - Adjourned of the debate 
the SENATE 
the Tuesday 16 November 1999 
health postponement is ouverte at 14 hours , the Speaker étant at the fauteuil . 
prayers . 
health Act to 1968 amend the right pénal 
the trentième anniversary of his Adopted 
the Honourable Lucie pin : 
honourable senators , that foreign Canadians and Oceans Canadiennes fell soient conscients or non , the adoption , the 14 May 1969 , the Day Act to 1968 amend the right pénal , who légiférait Act Act contraception and the abortion thérapeutique , has irrévocablement changed our vies . 
transport complications during Senators accouchements not étaient not rare , and seuls them case them more graves apply terminaient by a trajet Act Act banquette footnotes of health voiture of the doctor until at the hospital the most proche and often , he guardian too later yeas sauver the bébé or yeas pratiquer series césarienne . 
who fallait - he sauver , the bébé or health mother ? 
the state also guardian fort clear : Act contraception guardian illégale , the same that the abortion . 
opposite at the state and at the Church , business women not specialist nil choice . 
yeas much of between us who travaillions fell gynéco - obstétrique , the quo quo guardian became insupportable and we awakened decided to travailler fell favour of the change yeas give at them women the accessibility at Act contraception . 
the bill to Bill C - 150 , more connu Subcommittee on behalf of " bill to Bill omnibus " , has been passed fell 1969 . 
he has accompli well - Provincial things yeas series foule of people . 
yeas reprendre the expression of the former prime minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau , he has amorcé the process consistant at bouter the state hors of them chambres at coucher of them people . 
health préférence sexual , business choice of méthodes of reproductive and Oceans ébats amoureux étaient analyzed relégués at the field private , at condition that confirms apply circulation between adults consentants . 
yeas them women , business perspectives ouvertes étaient drôlement more grandes . 
he guardian désormais possible for make the foreign choice . 
transport women acquéraient finally a minimum of control Act their own life , laquelle not apply réduisait more at series series interminable of grossesses , the risks yeas Act health and the children too nombreux yeas their capacités Projections . 
unabated nouvelle freedom has served on tremplin yeas them nombreuses other freedoms and options who acclaimed amended the role of them women streets our society : the estimated of se , the education , the Employment , series Senators at the chapter and health responsabilisation . 
honourable senators , I am very fière of wheel avoided participate at what process and the wheel avoided constater them réels changes which apply are opérés thanks at our efforts - efforts who semblaient at Act once if naturels and if nécessaires . 
he remembered notional là of series of them businesses them more importantes of ma life . 
more important still , bearer anniversary prouve series once the most that the change is possible , that foreign people arresting modify the foreign things streets Act life of autrui and that royal determination and health passion arresting make the foreign merveilles . 
victories therefore and rendons tribute at all levels citizens who acclaimed worked at the éclosion of them freedoms découlant of the bill to Bill C - 150 . 
the révérend father Emile Shoufani 
the Honourable Pierre De Ban : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to you make share of health visit récente at the Canada , du10 at the 25 October , the Government révérend father Emile Shoufani , director of the séminaire Saint - Joseph and the Government école secondaire of Nazareth , and curé of Nazareth , fell Israel . 
the father Shoufani , familièrement appelé Abouna Emile by all , authorized " father Emile " fell arabe , is a man and a priest profondément engagé streets his Church , the Church melkite grecque Catholic , streets dapper community arabe and streets his country , Israel . 
the father Shoufani guardian at the Canada ' guest of the Centre of Action Volunteer Émilie Gamelin of Joliette , who Partnerships organized a forum international impact " telecommunications âges of health life and the vieillissement " , congrès who has attiré a auditoire nombreux and who has been series grande Success at all égards . 
i voudrais also thank them members of the clergé , who never acclaimed ménagé nil effort yeas that unabated visit authorized couronnéede success . 
durant dapper visit at the Canada , the father Shoufani has strokes of them audiences approfondis with a if grandfather number of personalities that he me is impossible to them appoint toutes . 
i me limiterai at mention them rencontres with them personalities suivantes : the Prime Minister of the Canada , the very hon. Jean Chr , the Speaker of the Senate , the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , the minister of them Foreign Foreign , the Honourable Lloyd Axworthy , business hauts officials of the Council private , authorized the Department of the Prime Minister , analyzed that foreign diplomats of the Department of them Foreign Foreign responsables of the Middle - Middle . 
the father Shoufani has also prononcé several conferences Act Act situation at the Middle - Middle , notamment appeared the Middle East Discussion Group , here same at the Parliament , analyzed that appeared the Council of them relations internationales of Montreal . 
he has also abordé of them subjects proprement religieux , notamment Act " the future commun of them chrétiens , the foreign musulmans and the foreign Jews " , at the University Saint - Paul - Ottawa and appeared Act community of Madonna House at Combermere , fell Ontario , where he has rencontré the former archevêque of Galilée , Mgr Joseph Raya , a man exceptionnel that I admire grandement . 
the father Shoufani has also rencontré the archevêque of Saint - Boniface , Mgr Antoine Hacault , analyzed that the évêque of Joliette , Mgr Gilles Lussier . 
the one of them moments them more émouvants has without nil doubt been Act rencontre of the father Shoufani with the very honorablePierre Elliott Trudeau , the former prime minister of the Canada , who has dominé Act scène policy of our country durant activist of years . 
unabated rencontre has strokes instead at the moment oùM. Trudeau célébrait ses80 years . 
the father Shoufani not has ceased of travailler at réconcilier and at unir all levels citizens of his country , Israel . 
also has he rencontré streets our country a grandfather number of Canadians to origin arabe , particularly ceux of Montreal and the Ottawa . 
he has also rencontré several personalities éminentes of health community juive canadienne , analyzed that the Congress juif , section of the Quebec , and he has rendu visit at the école séfarade of language Speaking of Montreal , the école Maimonide . 
what that I trouve the most admirable chez the father Shoufani , what is that his carking respect yeas Act life not can perhaps dissocié of dapper conviction according laquelle we devons we efforcer of improving the fate of all levels êtres humans and that person cannot has the right to infliger of them souffrances at them other . 
the approach positive of the father Shoufani fell matière of settlement of them problems is remarkable . 
gerrymandering - ci is always loan at make the Prime not . 
he remembered efforce always the understanding them dreams and Oceans ideas of them other and the manifester of the empathy at their regard . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
senator De Ban , vos three minutes are écoulées . 
demandez - you the Authorized to pursue ? 
the senator De Ban : 
yes . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
the Authorized is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator De Ban : 
honourable senators , Emile Shoufani is born at Nazareth fell 1947 . 
fell activist that chrétien of origin arabe streets the state of Israel , Emile Shoufani has past 52 years at montrer , streets dapper life and his work , that he is possible for allegiances a term at the foreign centuries of Opposition and the violence . 
dapper life is a testament at Act coexistence peaceful of them Jews , the foreign Arabes , the foreign musulmans and the foreign chrétiens streets series region which has désespérément need to a model of peace and the reconciliation . 
Emile Shoufani has learned by the biais of tragedies personnelles the meaning exodus of the pardon and the Government respect yeas them other . 
he is a model yeas all . 
his grandfather - father and his uncle acclaimed been killed durant Act War of 1948 , lors of health déportation of villageois at Eilabun . 
dapper grandfather - mother , who has lost his husband and a son , has enseigné the pardon at his petit - son . 
he has grandi at the Breast of health minorité arabe who is restée streets the Insignia state of Israel . 
transport difficulties auxquelles he has owed make opposite at the surveillance of unabated period of dapper life acclaimed enseigné at Emile that the humilité is series vertu , but non Act poverty . 
rebelle durant his adolescence at the séminaire Saint - Joseph , Emile prit profondément conscience of health value of health life everything fell ressentant the need to make series difference . 
he décida of devenir priest . 
Robbie that he vivait at Paris , the 1964 at 1971 , at Act subsequently of ses studies fell philosophie and théologie , Emile Shoufani has read Treblinka , by Jean - François Steiner . 
confirms the has conduit at fell learn davantage Act the Holocaust , at visiter Dachau and he is income chez him after wheel subi series transformation spirituelle , fell rose a standpoint of standpoint everything at fact différent . 
ordonné priest of the Church Catholic grecque fell 1971 , he has said rejecting streets his Prime sermon : 
very earlier at the surveillance of his Department , fell activist that pasteur of various villages of Galilée , Abouna Emile is became connu commentator a médiateur , not only yeas the regulation of them différends between them communaut religieuses chrétienne , mulsumane and druze , but fell activist that ardent défenseur of series exodus coexistence consistant non simply at vivre Coast at Coast , but at really partager series life commune . 
when the évêque him has confié Act direction of the séminaire and école secondaire St - Joseph , fell 1976 , Abouna Emile apply guardian already gagné Act confidence of all levels people of health region . 
the fact that the nombreux parents of nombreuses communaut religieuses him confient their child shows the ampleur of health confidence and the Government respect that he remembered is gagné streets these quartiers . 
fell 1976 , the séminaire St - Joseph Partnerships 200 élèves and guardian Act the standpoint of fermer . 
the father Emile has decided to relever the challenge , the try to maintain the école ouverte with series volonté renforcée by dapper faith . 
he has essayé of réaliser two objectives . 
he remembered agissait everything of thanking of refaire of St - Joseph series école of first class tournée toward the excellence . 
he has ensuite sensibilisé series nouvelle generation of students at their stories and identités distinctes , everything fell obtenant of their share a commitment total at the hook of their intégration at the state of Israel . 
dapper first bataille has consisté at attirer a staff qualifié and dynamic partageant dapper vision according laquelle the école doit non only éduquer , but also développer blunt Act human , " the élève fell activist that person passant at the Prime plan " . 
his second exploit révolutionnaire has consisté at transformer the école fell a établissement Joint opened at toutes them religions , at them two sexes and at différentes crops . 
according him : 
St - Joseph not is not series école chrétienne who accepte them musulmans and Oceans druzes , but series école where them chrétiens , business musulmans and Oceans druzes vivent together . 
the concert with the corps professoral , Emile Shoufani cherchait constamment at achieve the foreign standards of post élevées . 
Seneca what that Tisserant the father Shoufani : 
we devons former them 20 40,000 at 1:30 40,000 academic arabes whose the country has need . 
seventeenth years later later , the école is fell measure of soutenir Act competition of them meilleures schools fell Israel . 
today today , the école account 1 200 élèves and , each year , the 120 à130 élèves of them two sexes reçoivent their diploma . 
Emile Shoufani manifeste always the same dynamisme révolutionnaire that he rereads has 24 years . 
he continues to apply préoccuper of them appointments at the effectif and at the council of directors of the école . 
fell 1989 , after wheel établi them points forts and health reputation of the école Act the Mifflin scolaire , the father Emile has decided to apply consacrer at his second objective , authorized a bill ? pilote of dialogue with Act " Lyada " , series école juive of Prime plan relevant to the university hébraïque of Jerusalem , afin of " give at our young them outils whose they acclaimed need yeas ensure their pleine intégration streets the state of Israel everything fell conservant their identity . " 
today today , health mission of the séminaire St - Joseph BNA at ensure l' " education at the service of health peace " . 
the father Shoufani has déclaré often : 
i estimated appartenir at what country at the history attest and variée , fell quality of Arabe , the chrétien and the Israélien . 
these differences never me posent not to problems . 
thanks at ma faith , I ai series vision Universal me permettant of transcender them limits individuelles and the better écouter condolences brothers . 
fell ending , I ajoute that the father Shoufani guardian accompagné durant dapper visit streets our country by Ms Soad Haddad , that I ai the privilege of connaître since most of ten years . Ms 
Soad Haddad is remarkable streets Act measure where , autant that she puisse apply souvenir , she has always senti that she appartenait davantage at Act grande collectivité humaine that at series family particulière . 
the existence has always been yeas she liée at the sentiment of Welfare fell mission . 
what is what who the has amenée at apply libérer completely afin of apply consacrer at ses tasks actuelles . 
she lobbyist Coast at Coast with the father Emile since most of 20 years at the service of the Church melkite and the Day community arabe of the state of Israel . 
rejecting said , honourable senators , we awakened essentially two options . 
the genus is the insister Act them differences between them êtres humans , what who is easy . 
we pouvons see at quels conflits tragiques confirms has mené . 
the another , at the contrary , is the allegiances the accent Act what who rapproche them people of différents groups socioéconomiques , the religions distinctes and at them offender différents . 
what is much more difficult . 
however , what is without nil doubt the option Act more généreuse , health better adaptée at them time modernes and celle yeas laquelle all levels people well intentionnés devraient apply battre . 
what is Act voie that foreign parents of the father Shoufani him acclaimed enseignée , celle who the has guidé everything at the term of dapper life . 
he is rare of rencontrer a man commentator the father Shoufani , doté of series telle vision and the one tel courage . 
what fut a grandfather honour yeas moi , who am born streets of countries , the Government accompagner analyzed that his adjointe , health very compétente Ms Soad Haddad , durant their visit at the Canada . 
the group of expert Act the access at them data historiques of the census 
the Honourable Lorna Milne : 
honourable senators , I ai the grandfather plaisir of attirer the attention of unabated House Act series announcement introductory recently by the Honourable John Manley , Minister of the Industry and Minister responsible for Statistics Canada . 
Friday last , the minister Manley has announced Act creation of a group of expert Act the access at them data historiques of the census . 
the group fell question fera report at the minister of here the 31 May 2000 and recommandera series approach permettant of établir a fair milieu between Act necessity of protect Act life privacy and Oceans demandes of access to them généalogistes , historians and archivistes at them data historiques of census . 
commentator them honourable senators ' savent , I ai fact pression at the Parliament fell what sense he rereads has now more of a 2000 . 
i am ravie that the minister ait adopted series approach proactive at the hook of unabated question and ait appointed an group of expert composed of five persons hautement respectées , whose our ancienne colleague , the Honourable Lorna Marsden . 
he is at espérer that what group trouvera of them afford novateurs yeas réussir a happy compromise between them impératifs of health protection of health life privacy and ceux of health découverte of the Heritage Heritage . 
the minister Manley has been sensible at condolences démarches ; he has commitments good particulars of health correspondance of them généalogistes , historians and archivistes Airports , and he complements of prendre them premières provisions yeas respond at our concerns , notamment fell instituant what group . 
what is là the fruit of the work accompli by foreign associations of historians and the généalogistes who acclaimed sensibilisé the opinion Public at Act question and him acclaimed licences of express his opinion . 
i am impatiente of prendre knowledge of the report that what group we présentera at Act nouvelle year . 
health Act Act them languages Languages 
the trentième anniversary of dapper proclamation 
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier : 
honourable senators , I query souligner the trentième anniversary of health Act Act them languages Languages , whose health proclamation has strokes instead the 1er July 1969 . 
unabated bill , who is seconded by series grande majority of Canadians , has licences of accomplir of them progress at the Breast of health function Public fell what who has trait at Act language of services and at Act representation equitable . 
he tangibly however reconnaître that he we rest much of chemin at parcourir fell what who has trait at Act language of work . 
he me tangibly souligner , yeas explain them success of health law , the apport important to the Commissariat at them languages Languages , the foreign commissaires who faces there are succédé and the Government committee Joint Standing Act them languages Languages of health House of them Commons and the Government Senate . 
i request at all levels Canadians to continue at adhere unabated extraordinary caractéristique of the country that is Act duality linguistic . 
health Act Act them languages Languages confère at the English and at the French their status , their rights and privileges fell activist that languages of the Parliament and the Government government ' s Canada . 
transport provinces are invitées at perhaps généreuses loyalty Act minorité linguistic . 
few - unes the Cutbacks of bon gré , the other apply Cutbacks tirer the oreille . 
i am well conscient of them nouveaux efforts who repositories perhaps sparked yeas conserver the equity linguistic everywhere at the country and what , streets the spirit and health letter of health law and , mostly , streets the respect to them laws which we régissent . 
the program of exchange of pages with Act House of them Commons 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , before the mood at Act next question inscrite at the Order of the day , I voudrais you introduce them pages who acclaimed bénéficié of the program of exchange of pages and who we viennent of health House of them Commons . 
Rachelle Bédard expecting fell Science political at Act Faculty of them Science payroll of the University of Ottawa . 
she is native of Gatineau , at the Quebec . 
marie - Claire Raymond is Pierrefonds of Penetanguishene , fell Ontario . 
marie - Claire Turcot of them studies at Act Faculty of science payroll of the University of Ottawa and account apply spécialiser fell Science policy and fell espagnol . 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
the budget of them Estimates for 1999 - 2000 
depository of the budget Supplementary ( A ) 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) dépose the Estimates Supplementary ( A ) yeas the fiscal apply ending the 31 March 2000 . 
transport community francophones and acadiennes hors Quebec 
depository of the report Act Act détérioration of them services fell French 
the Honourable Jean - Maurice Simard : 
honourable senators , I voudrais déposer the report which fact état of health structure who prévaut présentement vis - at - vis the development and the épanouissement of them communaut francophones and acadiennes , the Day détérioration progressive , the Government désengagement of them governments at the surveillance of them 10 dernières years and the Day loss of accessibility to them services fell French . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I cannot dispel not accept the tabling of a document of a senator at least the one consent unanimous of health share of the Senate . 
is - what that he rereads has consent unanimous ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the adjournment 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the article 58 ( 1 ) 1:30 ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that , when the Senate apply adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until at tomorrow , the Wednesday 17 November 1999 , at 1:30 1:30 30 . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
the budget of them Estimates for 1999 - 2000 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee of them finances nationales at And the budget Supplementary ( A ) 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that tomorrow , the mercredi17 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them finances nationales authorized authorized at And , afin of fell make report , business Estimates projetées streets the Estimates Supplementary ( A ) yeas the fiscal apply ending the 31 March 2000 , at the exception of the credit 10a of the Parliament and the Government credit 25a of the Council private . 
notice of Motion Convey referred to the credit 25a at the committee Joint Standing of them languages Languages 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the alinéa 58 ( 1 ) f ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that the committee Joint Standing of them languages Languages authorized authorized at And them Estimates projetées at the credit 25a of the Council private content streets the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) , yeas the fiscal apply ending the 31 March 2000 ; and 
that a message authorized Message at Act House of them Commons yeas the fell inform . 
notice of Motion Convey referred to the credit 10a at the committee Joint Standing of health Library of the Parliament 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that tomorrow , the mercredi17 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Comité Joint Standing of health Library of the Parliament authorized authorized at And them Estimates projetées at the credit 10a of the Parliament content streets the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) yeas the fiscal apply ending the 31 March 2000 ; and 
that a message authorized Message at Act House of them Commons yeas the fell inform . 
routine Foreign 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at Extend Act date of Tabled of his report final sur la Modified of the mandate of the Organization of the Traité of the Atlantic North 
the Honourable John B . Stewart : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that tomorrow , the Wednesday 17 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that , by derogation at the Order adopted by the Senate Committee Thursday 14 October 1999 , the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign , authorized at examiner yeas fell make report them ramifications yeas the Canada : 1 ) . - Status Modified apportée at the mandate of the Organization of the Traité of the Atlantic North ( NATO ) and at the role of the Canada streets the NATO since Act dissolution of the pacte of Varsovie , the Day end of health War Cold and the Government entrée récente streets the NATO of health Hongrie , the Day Poland and the Day Republic tchèque ; and 2 ) . - Government maintien of health peace , mostly Act ability to the Canada ' there participate Subcommittee them auspices of not regardless breaching body international whose the Canada done part , authorized habilité at introduce his report final at the most later the 15 December 1999 ; and 
that the Comité conserve them powers nécessaires at Act diffusion of them results of his study contenus streets his report final , and what until at the 24 December 1999 ; and 
that the Comité authorized authorized , nonobstant them practices habituelles , at déposer his report auprès of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that ledit report authorized réputé wheel been tabled at the Senate . 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
the Solicitor General 
the Correctional Heritage of the Intelligence of security - Possibility loss of documents classifiés - Ex review of the committee of monitoring of them activities of the Intelligence of security 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I ai series question at the intent of the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
transport media everywhere at the Canada acclaimed rapporté a malheureux incident whose Partnerships been victim series agente of the SCRS who Partnerships shirts a document at uniqueness secret Act Act banquette footnotes of dapper voiture Robbie that she assistait at series part of hockey at Toronto . 
the minister could - he we say breaching guardian Act cote of security attachée at what document ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I thank the Honourable Senator of unabated question . 
he has évidemment been porté at Act knowledge of the public by foreign media , and by Act subsequently confirmed by the minister at Act House of them Commons , that a manquement enough grave at the protocole of security Partnerships been commis by series employée of the SCRS . 
health direction of the SCRS examine currently unabated affair . 
understandings at Act cote of security attachée at the document fell question , I devrai determine whether I puis obtain unabated information yeas the Honourable Senator . 
the senator Kinsella : 
i thank the Honourable Senator of apply engager at the make . 
he remembered notional of savoir if what document guardian very secret , secret or confidentiel . 
the Parliament has institué the committee of monitoring of them activities of the Intelligence of security . 
the Parliament has rose at what committee Civil Code mandate légal of surveiller them activities of the SCRS . 
is - he true that what is sideshow by Act voie of them newspapers that royal patron of the CSARS has heard parler of what manquement , Robbie that the Solicitor General fell Partnerships strokes knowledge since a certain time ? before same that foreign newspapers not fell fassent état ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
transport honourable senators comprendront that I cannot saurais not normally how the inspecteur General of the SCRS has been overburdened at the courant of unabated affair , anguishes how the CSARS the has been . 
however , the minister has said at the another place that he fell Partnerships been informé he rereads has two or three weeks . 
i think that he is enough clear that the CSARS fell has been informé something time largest later . 
fell fact , I puis say at them honourable senators that the SCRS and the inspecteur General of the SCRS Cutbacks inquiry streets unabated affair at the moment where I you parle . 
the most , the CSARS has him also sparked a review at bearer regard to dapper own initiative . 
commentator them honourable senators , I am impatient of obtaining a report at what topic , and I serai happy to fell make connaître them details . 
the Honourable Jean - Claude Rivest : 
the minister could - he we say apply he existe series rule of them services secrets understandings at Act handling of them documents ? 
is - what that series human or a agent can everything simply apply promener with the foreign documents ? 
existe he series procedure who never aurait vraisemblablement not been suivie streets what case ? 
the minister we said that the government federal essayera of make inquiry yeas see exactly what who faces is past . 
the minister may - he perhaps more spécifique understandings at Act nature of the inquiry at venir opposite at what malencontreux incident ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , he is obvious that he rereads has strokes offence at Act security . 
health human fell question arranged soumise at series inquiry menée at Act once by the SCRS and by the CSARS . 
commentator doit the savoir the Honourable Senator , the CSARS is the committee independent of monitoring externe who has sparked unabated task . 
i am certain that these two agencies apply acquitteront of their responsibilities with blunt Act diligence and health rapidité voulues and that they produiront a report more détaillé of them events who faces are products . 
the senator Rivest : 
honourable senators , évidemment , he rereads has the foreign inconvénients Act the Mifflin Internal . 
the Canada and the Correctional Heritage of the Intelligence of security collaborent with the very nombreux country at travers the world . 
the minister and the government are - they conscients that bearer incident risk of entacher very seriously Act credibility of them services secrets Airports ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , fortunately , bearer incident seems perhaps isolé . 
well that he authorized regrettable and that til not puisse deny Act gravité of these events , I hope that they not auront not to repercussions sensibles Act our relations with them other countries , particularly our allies . 
the senator Kinsella : 
honourable senators , the minister could - he we say why he has fallu two weeks entières at the Solicitor General yeas prévenir the committee which , according the minister , paving now make inquiry Act unabated affair ? 
why wait two weeks ? 
no there has he not a sentiment of responsibility streets the spirit of them ministériels when they are overburdened at the courant of series affair commentator celle - ci ? 
the Parliament has created a committee chargé of enquêter Act what kind of situation and pourtant the Department of the Solliciteur General has shirts traîner them things during both weeks entières . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I dispel nothing say to precise Act Act question of them délais car I cannot know not exactly when the information gave been transférée . 
however , I believe understand that the inspecteur General of the SCRS has immediately commitments the affair fell main and apply fell occupies commentator he the doit . 
the role of the is the enquêter Act to them activities commentator celles that mènerait the inspecteur General streets the framework of unabated affair . 
i cannot know not exactly at breaching moment the CSARS interviendrait . 
the Honourable Roch Bolduc : 
honourable senators , he rereads has few years , we awakened strokes of them problems subsequently at series fuite of the budget of the minister of them Finance . 
finalement , everything the world guardian at the courant and the minister has owed prononcer a speech rapide . 
there has he series procedure self who assure Act confidentialité of them documents ? 
apply he existe series procedure , has she several degrees of quality ? 
by example , we savons all that the budget of the minister of them Finance and Oceans questions of security national are very secrets . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I am persuadé that he existe various classifications of security yeas them documents of the SCRS . 
i cannot organize not fell detail all levels niveaux of security , but I ferai of mon better yeas obtain what Intelligence yeas the senator . 
the senator Bolduc : 
honourable senators , I vais revert at Act charge because that recently , we ourselves impotent shirts say , at the topic of them transactions with them Americans fell matière of advocacy , that we étions more or less fiables . 
transport Americans not voudraient more transiger with us and we accorder some licences yeas of them équipements yeas Act defence because that we aurions Act reputation of not perhaps not enough fiables . 
what is gênant of apply make say confirms by our neighbours , mostly when we entretenons with eux of bonnes relations fell General . 
the minister could - he porter at the attention of the minister of health Défense national unabated question of health later upper importance ? 
we devons make something something at what topic car you pouvez conceive that series telle affair not assistance not them relations between our two country . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I am everything at fact disposé at transmettre them concerns of them senators understandings at Act nature of bearer incident . 
i soulignerai the importance that accordent them senators at unabated malheureuse series of events . 
however , I cannot am not certain of partager the notice exprimé by the Honourable Senator streets the preamble of dapper question . 
health issue of the ITAR fact part of series category différente . 
he is certainly disturbing of constater that series information or a document protégé not is not manipulé with toutes them précautions nécessaires commentator what fut the case yeas what document . 
series inquiry is fell surveillance , menée at Act once by the SCRS at the Internal and by the CSARS . 
i am persuadé that foreign measures correctives who faces imposent uncovered prises and that royal human fell cause arranged traitée of way appropriée . 
health justice 
health possibility of protect davantage them people against Act violence 
the Honourable Herbert O . Sparrow : 
honourable senators , I ai series question at poser at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
transport Canadians to everyone the country are préoccupés by Act violence who has surveillance between them young . 
series another préoccupation is implementation fell évidence by a section who has been released recently by a newspaper of Vancouver Act the fact that a another case of saucissonnage fell British - British Partnerships coûté Act life at series lady âgée . 
he seems that these individuals not arresting nothing make yeas apply protect against these crimes . 
i cannot tiens not at raise Act question of the control of them weapons at gun , but he fut a time where Act collectivité Farm apply protégeait at the moyen of fusils of whaling . 
til not apply attaquait not at them farmers to afraid of Welfare blessé . 
the Code criminal interdit of apply serve the brouillard of poivre yeas apply protect . 
transport residents of them towns rural and , désormais , business residents of them regions urbaines not acclaimed not to other methods of apply protect and they are absolument terrifiés by toutes these stories of saucissonnage , the effraction , the rape and the murder whose they entendent parler . 
if the minister not connaît not the file yeas the instant , perhaps - perhaps could - he fell discuss with ses colleagues , notamment the minister of health Howe . 
the foreign measures are - thin fell preparedness , who palatable help them persons whose til exploite Act faiblesse at apply protect thin - mêmes ? 
well - Provincial people cannot acclaimed not them afford to entourer their ownership of clôtures anguishes of wheel of them gardes of security . 
these individuals are laissées at thin - mêmes and thin are them victims of them criminals of our society . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , business problems décrits by the senator Sparrow we remplissent all of indignation . 
the Code criminal allows at them courts of apply montrer very sévères loyalty them authors of these crimes . 
i comprends néanmoins them composition exprimées by the senator . 
the problem tient can - perhaps fell part at the Evolution of them relations familiales , at the surveillance of them dernières decades . 
bye series époque , series family rurale or Farm pouvait compter devenir series family élargie , if well that foreign persons seniors étaient less often livrées at thin - mêmes , loin of them other members of health family . 
what is series hypothèse , but I believe that , if we comparions Act situation actuelle at celle of he rereads has 30 years , we constaterions that he rereads has today today much more of persons seniors who vivent seules at the instead of make part of series family élargie . 
health protection that the senator request is perhaps - perhaps , yeas unabated Gotcha reason , more necessary to our days . 
i ai commitments knowledge of data statistics according lesquelles the number of crimes violent serait at Act declining streets the whole of health population . 
he tangibly always see these data of a oeil critique , but he is certain that , yeas them victims agressées chez thin , mostly when he remembered notional of persons seniors , the problem remains grave . 
i vais certainly make share at condolences colleagues on the cabinet of them composition and the Day question of the Honourable Senator . 
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire 
health crisis Farm at the Manitoba and fell Saskatchewan - Possibility possibility of a program of credit Farm 
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson : 
honourable senators , I voudrais poser at the Leader of the government at the Senate series question Act Act crisis Farm , who seems apply aggraver of day fell day . 
the 2,500 November 1999 , I ai asked at the minister if the government guardian disposé at apporter of them rajustements at the credit Farm afin of venir fell assistance at some farmers who are incapables of acquitter their debts . 
the Leader of the government ' s Senate has semblé well accueillir ma suggestion , fell McEachern notamment that these issues teamwork already the objet of discussions , but that he not voulait not violer Act confidentialité of the cabinet . 
knows - til , at what stadium - ci , what that the government has the intent of make fell what who pertains the credit Farm ? 
voilà well a field where the government could give the example at them Banking and at them cooperatives of credit . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I regret to no authority give the answer more précise yeas the moment . 
since Act dernière once that we awakened abordé unabated question , the government federal has accordé series somme Supplementary of 170 million for $ at the program ACRA afin of offer series assistance notable at them farmers . 
bye what moment - là , we cannot savions not at the fair how allaient réagir them governments provinciaux . 
we cannot savions not apply they accepteraient of verser their share , correspondant at 40p. cent of unabated somme , the government federal contribuant 60p. cent of them fund , commentator he the Partnerships fact yeas the program original . 
bye less than Act situation ait changed recently , til me has informé that foreign provinces cannot specialist not accepted the verser more of money . 
transport governments of health Saskatchewan and the Government Manitoba acclaimed all sides déclaré officially that they refusaient of accroître their contribution financière . 
the Honourable Senator knows can - perhaps if health situation has évolué since . 
i ai of the evil at understand unabated reaction . 
transport two premiers ministers provinciaux are flocked at Ottawa yeas describe Act gravité of health situation and health necessity of series assistance immediate . 
fell fact , at the surveillance of them few five dernières years , the assistance that foreign two governments provinciaux acclaimed granted at their farmers has been considérablement réduite . 
when they acclaimed exigé with insistance that the government federal intervienne , he has versé 170 million for $ streets the program . 
what not guardian can - perhaps not everyone what that foreign farmers voulaient , but what guardian assurément series measure positive . 
however , he seems that foreign reactions of them governments of the Manitoba and the Day Saskatchewan aient shirts at désirer . 
the senator Gustafson : 
honourable senators , the minister not répond not at ma question at the topic of the credit Farm , who is series responsibility to the government federal . 
unabated responsibility not is not partagée with them governments provinciaux . 
he remembered notional of funds avancés by the government federal . 
whereupon that he fell authorized , fell what who pertains the program ACRA , streets Act region where I habite , business people who reçoivent of them fund streets the framework of what program are financièrement at the aise . 
transport farmers who acclaimed need to silver not fell reçoivent not . 
i voudrais that til dictatorship series inquiry yeas savoir who receives the money . 
transport families poor who acclaimed need to the money not the reçoivent not . 
what is what that me acclaimed said to them farmers to blunt Act Saskatchewan . 
yeas revert at Act Corporation - Government credit Farm , the government prévoira he a allégement of health debt contractée auprès of unabated society ? 
health Corporation - Government credit Farm not is not series responsibility partagée with them provinces ; she relève sideshow of the government federal . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I cannot essaie not to éluder Act question of the senator . 
i cannot dispel there respond today today . 
the blunt évidence , what file is between them mains of the minister . 
blocks that I serai fell measure of give series response définitive , I serai very pleased to the make . 
honourable senators , business two governments provinciaux fell cause acclaimed ardemment exprimé , at Ottawa and elsewhere , series profonde inquiétude yeas them farmers . 
they not cherchent not to excuses when they affirment that the program not works not perfectly well . 
we the savons . 
transport senators ' Affairs two sides the acclaimed affirmé durant the debate Special tenu at Act request for the Honourable Senator Gustafson . 
however , the program not has not been conçu by the odyssey government federal , he has been élaboré fell cooperation with them two governments who now , after their intervention spectaculaire , refusent of apply engager véritablement . 
apply they not aimaient not the program , they auraient avoided propose the foreign improvements . 
the minister of the Agriculture essaie of improving the effectiveness of the program . 
however , the fact that gerrymandering - ci not authorized not perfect not excuse aucunement Act conduct of these two premiers ministers . 
the Program of assistance fell case of catastrophe liée at the Income Farm - Ex effectiveness of the program 
the Honourable Herbert O . Sparrow : 
honourable senators , the government ' health Saskatchewan has 3.26 200 million for $ at the program , but unabated somme not is not dépensée car the government federal not débourse not dapper share of the money . 
he rereads has therefore the foreign impotent fell attente , but the government federal not has nil plan who permettrait of distribute bearer money . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate has spoke of a amount additionnel of 170 million for $ . 
unabated somme is destinée at everything the Canada and non at Act Gotcha region touchée by the problem whose he is question . 
the Department him ? same has déclaré that he ajouterait certaines impotent at them grants already accordées . 
by conséquent , he not complements not fell assistance at Act majority of them farmers who never acclaimed nothing received and whose business demandes , streets some cases , are empilées Act them pupitres since six months . 
transport governments of health Saskatchewan and the Government Manitoba acclaimed versé them impotent that they devaient contributing at the program . 
the Leader has déclaré that foreign governments specialist accepted the Government make . 
til we said without cesse that foreign governments and Oceans organizations agricultural apply are entendus Act what standpoint . 
however , what not is not the case . 
what who Partnerships been proposed has been accepted , but the program overburdened fell implementation guardian well différent and Oceans provinces acclaimed said that what not guardian not the program that thin specialist approved . 
health Federation canadienne of the Agriculture and all levels farmers acclaimed said that what not guardian not the program accepted at the origin . 
they submariners apply opposer at what program car the money not is not versé at ceux who fell acclaimed need . 
dear the minister , you pouvez certainly say that we fell awakened discussed at the Senate and with the importante delegation who is venue we rencontrer and that confirms not works not . 
the committee sénatorial of the Agriculture and the committee Standing of the Agriculture of health House of them Commons savent that tel is the case , but we persistons at say that what not is not to our fault . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate demandera he at the minister of the Agriculture of us say finally if the government entend make something something , yeas that we puissions we withdraw dignement ? 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , commentator them senators ' Affairs two sides the acclaimed said at the surveillance of the debate on emergency , the program not works not well and doit perhaps amended . 
til fell has convenu generally and the message has been clearly Message . 
i cannot voudrais not laisser hear that what not guardian not the case . 
honourable senators , I dis that he rereads Partnerships là series opportunity yeas them provinces of make series contribution importante . 
all levels senators arresting well penser that 170 million for $ , what not guardian not enough , but what is series contribution concrète and , at mon notice , business two provinces auraient owed fell fournir autant . 
the effectiveness of them programs of assistance - Possibility survival of them young farmers 
the Honourable Terry Stratton : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
transport farmers souffrent mille dead currently . 
ceux who are more âgés and better nantis arresting mood at the travers of health crisis because that they are établis since long . 
ceux who fell arrachent are them young who veulent préserver the congruent familiale . 
we analyzed fell train of them étouffer slowly , but surely . 
series year after the another , they souffrent mille dead and Cutbacks bankruptcy . 
bye the instead of their say honnêtement that he not there fingertips more of assistance , that they submariners disparaître apply they are incapables of survivre by their propres afford , the government business assistance at the countdown - gouttes yeas garder vivant a faux espoir . 
what is déraisonnable . 
the minister think he that what is series way equitable of traiter them young farmers Airports ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , we devrions make our possible yeas help them young farmers who are streets series situation critique . 
we devrions can - perhaps intervene auprès of the minister at the topic of the file of health Corporation - Government credit Farm . 
what is a problem of taille who , commentator them honourable senators ' savent , is infertility at them surveillance of them products of basic Act the market Whalers and at the fact that our farmers not acclaimed not right at the foreign rules of the stake équitables . 
what is a problem of taille who has the foreign repercussions at the échelle international and auquel he faudra chercher series solution at various niveaux . 
condolences colleagues me donnent the EI that the foreign efforts are déployés and that the foreign discussions are fell surveillance non only with the minister of the Agriculture and his Department , but also Act Act scène international , and what , afin of régler the problem more vast that constitue , between other things , the absence of rules of the stake équitables . 
health crisis Farm at the Manitoba and fell Saskatchewan - Ex Program of assistance fell case of catastrophe liée at the Income Farm - Comments impotent versées at them demandeurs 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
well that the Honourable Minister ait fact of them efforts méritoires yeas examiner Act situation , they not reflètent always not the emergency of health situation anguishes Act crisis actuelle . 
what is very well - parler of them modest impotent who acclaimed been accordées or the Day situation World , but he rereads has currently emergency . 
fell response at the foreign urgences , he tangibly adopt the foreign solutions more radicales , by example , fell éliminant the ACRA and fell prenant of them measures completely différentes yeas venir fell assistance at ceux who are streets the need . 
he rereads has referred little close series week , the foreign persons of the milieu Farm at the Manitoba me acclaimed said that approximately 59p. cent of them demandes présentées by foreign farmers specialist been rejetées . 
the minister knows - he if health situation is fell train of apply improve , account tenu of health restructuring of the ACRA who seems wheel strokes instead ? 
with damned rapidité them things arresting - thin apply improve ? 
the time file and health situation apply détériore without cesse . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I puis give at Mrs. the senator ' insurance that fell response at the problem General and at Act question particulière that she raises Act the percentage of demandes rejetées , we suivons the Evolution of health situation quotidiennement . 
i cannot know not if the nouvelles data valables are disponibles since that foreign measures to redressement acclaimed been prises , but I vais certainly me renseigner and transmettre Act request for the Honourable Senator . 
the senator Spivak : 
damned period of probation has til prévu yeas unabated nouvelle restructuring before that the government constate that the stake not fell vaut not Act chandelle ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , commentator what is the case yeas everything program , the minister responsible suivra the Evolution of health situation and , streets what case - ci , I am certain that he suivra his evolution quotidiennement . 
i hope that foreign results apply feront sentir enough quickly . 
i cannot puis say when he jugera that the other changes are nécessaires or that the program works better now . 
what serait difficult yeas moi of say when he prendra unabated decision . 
however , I cannot doubt not that he suivra the Evolution of health situation at the day the day . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , health period of them questions is now terminée . 
however , the senator Gustafson souhaite poser series question . 
is - what series question supplementary at series question précédente ? 
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson : 
his Honour the Speaker : 
veuillez poser your question . 
health crisis Farm at the Manitoba and fell Saskatchewan - Request for visit to the Prime Minister 
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson : 
honourable senators , account tenu of health crisis , the Leader of the government at the Senate may - he transmettre at the Prime Minister series request for aller constater by him ? same health gravité of health situation ? 
the west of the Canada deserves certes that the Prime Minister aille constater by him ? same health gravité of health situation . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I transmettrai certainly unabated request at the Prime Minister . 
[ later later ] 
the Environment 
health Nova Scotia Nova Scotia Position responsibility to health décontamination of them sites of déchets toxiques - Request for Answer 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
honourable senators , he rereads has few weeks , I ai posé series question at the Leader of the government Act Act Position of the government regarding health responsibility at the hook of them sites miniers abandonnés at the Cape - Cape . 
the bill to Bill C - 11 , regarding health dissolution of Devco , is currently at the study at Act House of them Commons , and I query wheel series response at unabated question before that what Bill of Bill not arrive here . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I serai happy to respond at Act question of the senator . 
bye series époque , business people étaient very pleased to payer yeas wheel what kind of opinion legal . 
what guardian , at mon notice , health belle époque . 
i ai seen a notice legal at what topic . 
according bearer notice legal , that I serai happy to partager with the senator and blunt another person intéressée , the bill to Bill not fingertips aucune incidence Act Act responsibility existante . 
i dispel give at the senator ' Affairs informations much more détaillées at what topic , what that I ferai . 
the senator Murray : 
i widow connaître Act Position of the government regarding health responsibility at the hook of these sites miniers abandonnés . 
the senator Boudreau : 
i dispel say at the senator that the government aimerait well that something a result another assume Act responsibility . 
however , I cannot know not if I dispel compter Act confirms . 
[ later later ] 
health Défense national 
the replacement of them helicopters Sea King - Possibility possibility of the credit - bail - Request for Answer 
the Honourable GerrySt. Germain : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse also at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
the 4 November , I ai posé series question regarding health possibility of substitute them Sea King fell louant of them helicopters , and the Leader of the government capitalists apply renseigner auprès of the minister at bearer regard . 
aurai - I series response soon or devrai - I poser of nouveau Act question tomorrow at Act period of them questions ? 
i fais series entorse at the rules , Your Honour , yeas power poser ma question . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , afin of accélérer the process , series response arranged communiquée . 
answers delayed at the foreign questions Oral 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I ai of them answers delayed at four questions . 
health first has trait at series question who has been poséele 2 November 1999 at the Senate by the Honourable Senator Forrestall at the topic of the regiment West Nova Scotia and the Day appointment of a Colonel Honorary . 
health seconde pertains series question who has been posée the 3 November 1999 at the Senate by the Honourable Senator Kelleher at the topic of a contract of consultation with the employer of a former ambassador . 
health third has trait at series question who has been posée the 3 November 1999 at the Senate by the Honourable Senator Roche at the topic of the désarmement nucléaire , the Day policy of the government opposite at Act resolution of health York Agenda Coalition . 
health fourth pertains series question who has been posée at the Senate by the Honourable Senator Oliver at the topic of them efforts déployés yeas augmenter Act representation of them minorities visible at the Breast of the government . 
health defence national 
the West Nova Regiment - Possibility appointment of a Colonel Honorary 
the West Nova Regiment account Incidence them units distinguées of health Réserve canadienne . 
commentator toutes them units of health Réserve , he is a élément important to the team of health defence of the Canada . 
fell what who pertains Act appointment of a nouveau Colonel Honorary , health candidature of series human has been recommandée . 
unabated recommendation is currently at the study . 
transport Affairs Foreign 
the Insignia ambassador auprès of the Organization World of the trade - Possibility possibility of a contract of consultation with the employer of the former ambassador - Request for Tabling of documents 
( response at Act question posée by the honorableJames F . Kelleher : 3 November 1999 ) 
nay , Rand Weekes is fell congé without solde of the MAÉCI and not has nil contract with the Department . 
he remembered agirait of a conflict of interests etM. Weekes connaît very well them rules of Ethics at bearer effect . 
2 . Non , APCO not has nil contract with the government ' s Canada 
transport Nations overseeing 
the désarmement nucléaire - Possibility policy of the government opposite at Act resolution of health York Agenda Coalition 
( response at Act question posée by the honorableDouglas Roche the 3 November 1999 ) 
after wheel mené of them consultations approfondies of haut level of way very intensive , the Canada has decided to maintain her abstention fell what who pertains Act resolution Act the " Nouvel Order of the day " the unabated year . 
streets the whole , our decision not constituait not series response at the text of health resolution . 
the text of unabated year has évolué considérablement and favorablement by report at what that we awakened examiné the 2000 last . 
the government ' s Canada apply rallie fell outre of way générale at the assessment introductory by Act York Agenda Coalition of them fortes pressure exercées Act the regime of désarmement and the Unborn - proliferation nuclear reposant Act the TNP . 
bye our opinion however , series Action concertée visant at régler them nombreux problems with lesquels the regime of désarmement and the Unborn - proliferation nuclear is at them prises nécessitera the soutien the most large possible . 
transport States dotés of weapons nuclear and their partners and alliances repositories apply engager yeas that the snakes puisse achieve them objectives of health resolution Act the Nouvel Order of the day . 
yeas our share , we entendons continue to coopérer with all levels States of optique commune at the Breast of them instances appropriées afin of susciter a soutien accru fell favour of health réalisation of progress fell what who pertains them objectives clés of the regime of non - proliferation and the désarmement nuclear . 
fell dapper quality of member of the NATO , the Canada has commitments particulars with satisfaction of the increase the Government number of States members of the NATO non dotés of weapons nuclear who acclaimed adopted series Position commune at the opportunity to the vote of unabated year . 
we serons saisis series nouvelle once the foreign questions visées by Act resolution Act the Nouvel Order of the day at Act Conférence of sober of the TNP who fingertips instead the spring next . 
the government ' s Canada apply efforcera of veiller at what that royal Conférence renforce the Traité and rétablisse series dynamic fell standpoint of health réalisation of ses objectives . 
the development of them resources Resources 
transport efforts déployés yeas augmenter Act representation of them minorities visible 
( response at Act question posée by the honorableDonald H . Oliver : 3 November 1999 ) 
transport data regarding Casual minorities visible streets Act function Public fédérale are basées Act the principle of statement volontaire of the employé . 
transport data disponibles them more récentes indiquent that Act a total of 248 employees apply étant auto - identifiés streets them groups and niveaux EX - 04 and EX - 05 ( Sous - ministers adjoints ) , five - between eux or 2.0 yeas cent apply are auto - identifiés commentator members of the group of them minorities visible . 
transport data yeas them Subcommittee - ministers or telecommunications persons nommées by the gouverneur fell council not are not disponibles . 
orders OF THE 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
second reading - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Kirby , supported by the Honourable Senator Lewis , Refer at Act second reading of the bill to Bill C - 6 , Act visant at facilitate and at promote the trade électronique fell protégeant them information personnels recueillis , utilisés or releases streets certaines circumstances , fell prévoyant the utilisation of afford électroniques yeas communiquer or enregistrer of the information and the foreign transactions and fell amend Act Act Act Act Evidence at the Canada , health Act Act them textes réglementaires and health Act Act Act révision of them laws . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
hon. Senator Murray , before that you not commenciez , I remind that our rules you alloue 45 minutes fell activist that Prime orator at prendre Act parole after the author of the bill to Bill No. 
but you prostituted already disposé de37 minutes . 
he you rest therefore eight minutes . 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
i vais make the mon better . 
honourable senators , he remembered notional of health second half of a speech that I ai began at prononcer the 4 November fell ouvrant the debate , at the name of the Opposition loyale of Majesty Majesty , based on Bill of Bill C - 6 . 
before the entrer streets the crux of the topic , I voudrais corriger series inexactitude that I ai commise streets mon speech of the 4 November . Je parlais of them efforts who acclaimed been facts streets the past by various parties political fell standpoint of inscrire streets Act Charter canadienne of them rights and freedom a right at Act life privacy . 
i ai affirmé by mistake queM. Chr Partnerships been the minister of health Howe of the government Trudeau before Senators election of 1979 . 
gold , he not fell is nothing . 
Koppel . Chr is became Minister of health Howe when the government Trudeau has commitments the power fell 1980 . 
always streets mon speech of the 4 November , I ai opened series parenthèse at propos of the character confidentiel of them data of the census . 
health issue has been soulevée more earlier today today lors of health statement of senators ' our colleague , the senator Milne . 
i ai spoke of health campaign fell surveillance , who could amener Act Modified of health law Proposed by Sir Wilfrid Laurier , garantissant Act confidentialité of them information personnels and at uniqueness private recueillis at the opportunity to a census . 
bye the époque , I me étais opposé by principle at what that royal bill authorized modifiée . 
since , the foreign Canadians indignés by unabated decision me acclaimed wrote - and even , streets some cases , these people étaient furieux - essentially the foreign people that royal généalogie intéresse . 
ma response , that I maintiens at what day , Partnerships been Act suivante : that til we soumette these dispositifs of protection , and we them examinerons , run he is asked at the Parliament of modify Act bill . 
but , based on principle General , I maintiens ma decision . 
i estimated that devraient demeurer confidentiels all information personnels and Woodlot , recueillis by the government streets the context of a census , based Act faith of series bill garantissant Act confidentialité of them these informations . 
i estimated , by principle , that we devrions avoid the BNA Act bill referred Act lightly . 
after everything , at the incorrigible of them years , business questions posées streets the framework of them recensements are devenues of more fell more indiscrètes , and what not is not because that foreign people décèdent that the government can apply estimé dégagé of his obligation to adhere Act confidentialité promise at these individuals . 
what is mon opinion , honourable senators . 
streets of them lieux reassess that the Senate , we devrions we heed Act our gardes opposite at them tentatives manifestes of some historians , experts fell Science payroll and journalists of us persuade that the right to recueillir and the communiquer of them informations should the emporter Act all levels other rights acquis . 
what is why I ai préconisé that we envisagions of inscrire a right at Act protection of them information personnels streets Act Charter canadienne of them rights and freedoms . 
i reconnais entièrement that we awakened here a conflict or series incompatibilité between two principles legitimate , the one étant the access at the information and the another Act protection of them information personnels . 
commentator yeas everything another conflict of principles , he tangibly tenter of find a fair balance . 
unabated incompatibilité of principles or the values apparaît also streets the bill to Bill whose we analyzed saisis . 
commentator I me am engagé at the make , I ai rencontré a certain number of parties intéressées or préoccupées by what Bill of Bill or I ai strokes with thin of them conferences téléphoniques or still I ai read carefully their mémoires . 
i cannot ai not changed the notice at the topic of what Bill of Bill No. 
i cannot prendrai not your time today today fell essayant of prévoir the témoignage that they uncovered invités at give appeared the committee , I fell am persuadé . 
however , I voudrais consigned certaines of them principales questions Act lesquelles the committee devra apply pencher . 
honourable senators , he rereads has series confusion extraordinary same chez the government and ses advisors understandings at savoir if what Bill of Bill apply applies at the sector of them care of health and how . 
the senator Kirby , the mover of the bill to Bill , could well vouloir parler of unabated question when he mettra a term at the debate fell second reading . 
however , he devra make better than what that he has done streets dapper statement prudente who consigned at lapage 120 of them Debates of the Senate to the 4 November where he has said : 
honourable senators , the bill to Bill C - 6 paving apply appliquer at all levels sectors of activité , indépendamment of health taille of them businesses . 
confirms comprend also the sector of health health . 
he paving permettre of protect them information personnels fell matière of health who acclaimed been recueillis , utilisés and releases streets the framework of activity commerciales . 
Koppel . Manley and the Department of the Industry acclaimed précisé yeas their share that the bill to Bill not apply applies not at them doctors , at them patients and at them hospitals . 
i tiens at say that what standpoint of standpoint is 3.25 fell question and , fell fact , contesté by the nombreuses parties intéressées and their advisors legal . 
what is the case by example of the Association canadienne of them care of health , who represents them hospitals of the Association medical canadienne , the Government Association medical of the Ontario and the Government Department of health Health Care the Ontario . 
he remembered notional là of bodies who acclaimed a standpoint of standpoint diamétralement opposé Act the fond of the bill to Bill and what that til should fell make . 
pourtant , they are the agreement Act a standpoint , authorized that the sector of health health not can vivre with the ambiguïté and health confusion entourant what Bill of Bill fell what who pertains his application at the sector . 
health confusion découle fell part of the least the Government fact that the bill to Bill is censé apply appliquer at them " activities commerciales " . 
that entend - til by là ? 
til said streets the bill to Bill that series " activité commerciale " is : 
blunt activité régulière analyzed that everyone acte isolé who revêtent a uniqueness commercial ... 
unabated definition not is not very useful . 
pourtant , til me said that foreign laws fédérales are pleines of définitions who are almost identiques at celle - ci fell what who has trait at the activité commerciale . 
the idea is that til laisse at them courts the soin of decide streets each case what who constitue series activité commerciale . 
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud ( His Honour the Speaker Acting ) : 
honourable senators , the time to parole of the senator Murray has expiré . 
leave is - she granted at the Honourable Senator of pursue ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Murray : 
i thank them honourable senators yeas their gentillesse . 
frankly , I cannot me am never arrêté at Act rule which limite at 45 minutes the intervention of the senator who répond . 
i cannot me étais not rendu account that I avais past autant of time Act Act first part of mon intervention . 
i cannot fell ai more yeas very long . 
health issue is the savoir if health relationship doctor - patient , streets Act measure where he rereads has the foreign honoraires , or health relationship Hospital - patient , yet series once streets Act measure where he rereads has the foreign honoraires , are the nature commerciale . 
that thin the soient or non , he rereads has when same a problem . 
i quote : 
according the AMC , he not there has not really moyen of make series distinction between the activité commerciale and the activité of care of health of series way which permette of apply ensure that foreign information figurant streets the file médical soient assujettis at the foreign rules différentes of celles auxquelles are assujetties them other information . 
that same if series telle distinction guardian possible , the dilemma serait the same yeas the government car serait - he desirable that foreign dossiers médicaux not soient assujettis at aucune rule ? 
otherwise said , business agencies who recueillent currently the Government information sur la health pourront - they prétendre that they not are not assujettis at them provisions of the bill to Bill C - 54 because that unabated information fact part of the file of health ? 
commentator you the savez , the numéro C - 54 is gerrymandering who Partnerships been attribué at what Bill of Bill at the opportunity to health session précédente . 
health Seneca apply Turcot : 
fell vertu of a tel regime , business dossiers of health petitioners assujettis at the foreign criteria less élevés that ceux who acclaimed surveillance yeas them information recueillis streets the context commercial . 
what is là the expression of a standpoint of standpoint . 
health same opinion is exprimée by the Association canadienne of health health , who represents them hospitals . 
she apply fonde Act series opinion legal that she has obtenue of the cabinet of lawyers Heenan Blaikie of Montreal , who précise what who suit : 
... non only the expression " activité commerciale " is - she very ambiguë , but she is also totalement inapplicable at our opinion streets the context of the system of health of today today . 
bye the surveillance of them dernières years , the system of health is became a network of services if complex and if transparent that blunt measure visant at exclure sideshow l' " activité commerciale " the Government system of health at them purposes of the bill to Bill C - 54 aboutirait sideshow at the foreign results illogiques , insensés and ridicules . 
i cannot veux not streamline exagérément Act question but , fell rule générale , he is at mon notice fair to say that foreign agencies of the field of health health whose business activities are clearly and indubitablement of Order commercial apply opposent at what Bill of Bill and demandent that everyone the sector of health health échappe at ses provisions . 
when I parle of " these " agencies , I veux say between other levels pharmaciens , business laboratoires and Oceans businesses which recueillent , paient and vendent of them data of the field of health health , Subcommittee series form globale or another , and some agencies of research and universities whose business activities admits a volet commercial . 
they estiment that the obligation to obtain the consent of them people before the communiquer of them data fell matière of health is too onéreuse . 
bye their notice , unabated exigence limitera seriously their aptitude at Camera a corps of information unifié visant at aboutir at series meilleure policy and at series meilleure management streets the field of health health . 
they laissent same hear that what Bill of Bill apply traduirait by a backsliding grave of health research medical at the country . 
the Ontario Medical Association affirme that the bill to Bill is incompatible with Act Act Act them doctors and health Act Act the consent at them care of health . 
bye their notice , business laws Provincial devraient wheel préséance . 
toutes these individuals croient that the établissement of protocoles interprovinciaux serait more efficient that series bill fédérale yeas ensure Act protection of them information sur them care of health . 
bye the hour actuelle , I dois say that the other persons well at the fact of them laws Provincial not are not also optimistes . 
fell fact , til said sometimes that royal bill ontarienne is series bill Act the access at them information rather than Act Act protection of them information . 
i cannot veux not say by là that the Ontario Medical Association and the Association canadienne of them care of health not apply intéressent not at Act protection of them information sur them care of health . 
he rereads has yet là incompatibilité at the level of them values , or at everything the least the foreign priorities . 
transport exposés préparés by these groups présentent of them concerns that I qualifierais of institutionnelles opposite at the aptitude at gérer , at planifier and at improve the system of care of health . 
they craignent that what Bill of Bill freine Act collaboration between them sectors public and private fell what who has trait at the funding or at Act Benefit - Provincial care of health . 
i ai same read streets a result them exposés that confirms could prevent Act Cross Bleue or the Bouclier vert of the Canada ' remplir their responsibilities fell Ontario streets the field of them care of health . 
he serait , according eux , difficult , voire same impossible yeas the government federal - allegiances fell implementation them recommendations of his Council Advisory Act the infostructure of health health who has presented his report fell February 1999 . 
bye the inverse , we awakened them positions exprimées very vigoureusement by the Association medical canadienne and by the Association dentaire canadienne . 
the Association medical canadienne soutient that royal protection of health confidentialité of the file médical of the patient doit the emporter Act blunt another considération . 
she trouve that what Bill of Bill is low . 
she Justice that the code of the Association canadienne of normalisation Act lequel apply fonde the bill to Bill is inadéquat fell what who has trait at the sector of health health and she believes , commentator she the has said , that the bill to Bill seems wheel the access at the information yeas value dominante . 
the Association dentaire canadienne we took said that we devons clarify the bill to Bill Act several other points importants . 
she soutient that the bill to Bill C - 6 not réussit not at respond at them requirements fondamentales yeas protect them Canadians against the mauvais usage of information personnels regarding their health by the foreign usagers secondaires and tertiaires of unabated information . 
the bill to Bill C - 6 allows can - perhaps the réaliser several priorities of the government fell matière of Commerce électronique , said : ADC , but she believes that the Senate doit make something something yeas clarify and strengthen the bill to Bill fell what who pertains them information personnels fell matière of health . 
the Association medical canadienne and the Association dentaire canadienne acclaimed toutes two élaboré of them amendments that thin veulent that we examinions and who , the afternoon what that I fell ai including , incorporeraient essentially streets unabated measure fédérale their propres codifies of protection of them information personnels . 
honourable senators , the committee is confronté at series task difficult and complex . 
appeared these positions who faces opposent vivement , even streets the field of health health , he serait tentant of say that royal truth réside something share between these two positions and that the government is probably parvenu at établir a fair balance with his bill to Bill C - 6 . 
he serait tentant of fell arriver at unabated conclusion or the soutenir bearer argument , but what serait really too easy . 
premièrement , the committee devra tâcher of dispel the ambiguïté and health confusion at propos of the applicabilité of the bill to Bill at the sector of health health . 
what is a field really too important . 
health protection of them information personnels fell matière of health is too importante yeas laisser what sector streets Act confusion . 
he is clear that foreign professionals streets what field not arresting the accept car they we the acclaimed said . 
if the bill to Bill not is not clarifié , gerrymandering - ci risk , series once adopted , the perhaps more often violé that respecté . 
nil of between us not souhaite that he fell authorized analyzed . 
even if we pouvons éliminer the ambiguïté who existe understandings at the application of the bill to Bill , that répondons - we at the Association medical canadienne and at the Association dentaire canadienne , who insistent afin that royal measure legislative authorized considérablement renforcée ? 
devrions - we try to appliquer them provisions at everything the sector of health health , activist commercial that non commercial ? 
if we the cynicism , awakened - we réellement the power constitutional of agir of health sorte ? 
finally , he tangibly absolument hear Health Canada relatively at unabated question . 
yeas autant that I sache , nil representative of Health Canada not is venu testify lors of them hearings on the committee of health House of them Commons . 
the committee and the Senate repositories bénéficier of them vues of the Department of health Health relatively at all levels aspects of the bill to Bill who touchent the sector of health health . 
personally , I cannot tiens not at what that the minister vienne testify , but the committee should certainly inviter of them hauts officials of the Department of health Health at venir examiner unabated measure legislative , étant rose that celle - ci touche Act health . 
honourable senators , we awakened much of work at make . 
cobwebs - we at Act task , but not précipitons not them things . 
no we imposons not to délais artificiels when he remembered notional of series question also importante . 
unabated once - ci , we cannot awakened not at us préoccuper of series prorogation . 
we pouvons prendre the time necessary . 
honourable senators , I you thank the your indulgence . 
the Honourable Sheila Finestone : 
honourable senators , I ai listened with grandfather interest them criticism constructives of our hon. colleague . 
he we remind and renforce the importance of health issue of the right at Act life privacy , basically , the right that til we laisse tranquilles . 
i believe that what is the judge Brandeis who has said that we avions the right that til we laisse tranquilles , and I am well - agreed with him . 
health issue is the savoir if what Bill of Bill répond at them two criteria suivants . 
the Prime is a criterion economic and the second pertains Act justice social . 
a grandfather number of them senators who faces trouvent today today fell opposite of moi admits the dilemma who BNA at équilibrer justice economic and justice social of series manner who authorized equitable yeas eux and yeas them persons that we awakened the privilege of represent fell unabated House , analyzed that yeas toutes them persons loyalty lesquelles we éprouvons a fort sentiment of responsibility . 
honourable senators , what is with series joie blunt particulière that I parle today today to the bill to Bill C - 6 . 
i me souviens that , the Government time where I siégeais at the another place , he remembered appelait the bill to Bill C - 54 , Act Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques . 
ma joie is the autant more grande that the genus of them responsibilities and the foreign duties whose I am Act more fière has been the serve fell activist that patron of the committee Standing of them rights of health human and the Day condition of them persons disabilities of the another place . 
we awakened tenu of them hearings Act series grande variété of questions regarding health life privacy and , fell 1997 , we awakened rédigé a report entitled : " Position life privacy : 
where apply situe Act border ? " 
we awakened heard from them stories enough troublantes at the topic of the treatment accordé at them persons disabilities and the foreign rights of health human who never étaient not well protected . 
we awakened heard parler of them challenges that represents Act nouvelle technology at the level of health protection of them rights of them citizens of fell prevent some of fouiller streets their lives privacy and the utiliser them information that they découvrent at the foreign purposes infâmes . 
our recherches me acclaimed fact découvrir them nombreuses facettes complex that comporte unabated question . 
he remains yet much of work at make yeas strengthen our rights fondamentaux . 
today today , I traiterai fell particular the Day part 1 to the bill to Bill and the Day protection of them information personnels streets the sector private . 
confirms not diminue fell nothing condolences reserves understandings at Act second part of the bill to Bill who door Act them documents électroniques . 
transport provisions of health part 2 of the bill to Bill are essentielles yeas facilitate the trade électronique who is became if important yeas the economy canadienne actuelle and whose the importance not fera that accroître at the incorrigible of them years . 
yeas the moment , I voudrais mostly me concentrer Act Act definition of health protection of health life privacy and the Government utilisation of them information personnels . 
transport provisions of the bill deloi C - 6 visant at ensure Act protection of health life privacy représentent a grandfather not streets Act good direction , mostly at them yeux of ceux who constataient the urgent need to better protect what right . 
fell appliquant them principles of health protection of them data reconnus internationalement at them businesses privées of ressort federal , the bill to Bill underlies toward a regime exhaustif of protection of health life privacy . 
the foreign laws Act Act protection of them information personnels and based on Trade électronique are already fell train of Welfare élaborées fell Europe , streets the Union European , at the OECD , fell Nova Scotia Zealand and fell Australia . 
transport Americans are préoccupés because that they not disposent not to mechanisms precise of protection of them information trading . 
they élargissent currently Act scope of unabated protection yeas power strengthen their activité commerciale . 
we awakened also need to make the Government trade , honourable senators . 
i am heureuse that we ourselves dirigions streets unabated voie thanks at what Bill of Bill No. 
i remind at them honourable senators that royal protection of them information personnels not is not series something at laquelle til can penser after coup streets series society democratic . 
the commissioner at Act protection of health life privacy , Bruce Phillips , run occupies of these issues , the same that the celles who relèvent of health Act Act the access at the information . 
these two laws arresting sometimes entrer fell conflict , but toutes two acclaimed yeas obligation to protect all levels citizens . 
health Act Act Act protection of them information personnels régit Act Donor , the utilisation and health communication of information personnels by the foreign institutions Change . 
she is very rigoureuse and has been effective until here . 
bye mon notice , the commissioner Phillips apply is very well acquitté of unabated function . 
the commissioner at Act protection of health life privacy of the Canada has soutenu that royal strength who anime them companies décentes is the respect to the principle of fairness . 
we devons we traiter them uns them other with a level reasonable of respect . 
we cannot devons not we promener fell cachette with the foreign information that we pouvons utiliser against the other persons . 
the bill to Bill C - 6 VI at ensure the respect to what principle of fairness and the décence . 
bye mon notice , the bill to Bill has atteint the balance délicat who faces ombudsman between Act necessity yeas them businesses Forces - wheel access at the foreign information personnels yeas exercer their activity and health necessity yeas all levels citizens of contrôler Act Donor , the utilisation and health communication of them information which foreign concernent . 
he is arrivé at bon number of between us to wheel series boîte at them letters who déborde of nouveau courrier of everyone kind . 
we ourselves demandons Robbie at damned magazine we awakened commitments a abonnement or still breaching achat we awakened fact at the moyen of series carte of credit , the sorte that we comprenons what that we recevons at our door , streets the courrier and by the intermédiaire of our telephone , and we cannot impotent not étonnés . 
what who we étonne , what is that our names soient vendus . 
composite of us is a objet of Commerce , series marchandise . 
streets damned measure voulons - we contrôler unabated marchandise yeas protect the foreign information personnels ? 
the effort yeas établir a balance is obvious streets the article énonçant the objet of the bill to Bill No. 
i conviens that royal measure has need to perhaps amendée and clarifiée . 
i ignore if we allons make a compromise and we hear , but I serais certainly more at the aise if unabated question faisait the objet of a review more approfondi . 
transport provisions Act Act protection of health life privacy reconnaissent that we vivons streets series ère where Act technology facilite of more fell more Act circulation and the exchange of information . 
what is a wording that he not particulars not forget . 
the bill to Bill C - 6 not is not series panacée yeas toutes them threats at Act life privacy auxquelles Cutbacks opposite toutes them companies démocratiques modernes , but he remembered arrête Act a élément important who is Act possibility that the foreign information personnels soient transmises at the foreign organizations at the Canada . 
the bill to Bill accorde at them consumers of them rights fell what who pertains them information personnels who them concernent , everything fell respectant the need légitime of them businesses of recueillir and the utiliser these information . 
transport consumers repositories wheel confidence - what is very important with Internet - and we devons favoriser unabated confidence . 
yeas that our businesses prospèrent and grandissent , thin repositories établir a link the confidence with ceux who utilisent their services . 
by conséquent , health confidence that has the consommateur that ses information personnels uncovered protected streets them transactions électroniques is absolument fondamental . 
fell same time , business efforts yeas protect them information Convey Act to them individus not repositories not entraîner inutilement of them costs yeas them businesses . 
health nouvelle measure legislative exigera that foreign companies apply conforment at the whole of practices équitables of treatment of the information overburdened at the standpoint by foreign representatives of the industry . 
transport groups of advocacy of them consumers , business syndicats , the government and various sectors of the field of health health acclaimed been consultés yeas unabated measure legislative of the Association canadienne of normalisation . 
what is là , I believe , series vast representation of them concerns and the foreign needs at prendre fell considération . 
transport practices équitables of treatment of the information whose he is question apply appellent the Code type of the Association canadienne of normalisation . 
what code is fell vigueur since 1996 and is joint fell Printed at the bill to Bill No. 
he has been overburdened at the standpoint by Act society civile , business businesses , the industry , business professionals and Oceans ONG . 
a result them amendments serait pertinent fell the occurrence car he remembered notional of series description very vast who couvre a large éventail of companies commerciales at the Canada . 
what code établit them obligations of them businesses which recueillent , utilisent and communiquent of them information personnels . 
transport businesses repositories indiquer at them persons at quelles purposes them data are recueillies , obtain their consent before the utiliser or the communiquer them information , veiller at what that foreign information soient well ceux who are nécessaires yeas them purposes auxquelles they repositories serve - non not not regardless quelles purposes , but unsuccessfully them purposes auxquelles they acclaimed been recueillis - and protect them information by the foreign measures to Safety adéquates . 
health norme national établit also the right to them subjects of them data of see and the corriger their dossiers and the run plaindre fell case of problems . 
these individuals arresting apply adresser at something a streets the congruent who seems utiliser at mauvais escient or evil communiquer them information and exiger that a responsible apply occupies of the problem and particulars them measures appropriées . 
he rereads fingertips without doubt a debate Act them improvements at apporter at the bill to Bill yeas the tribute more efficient . 
i remind at them honourable senators that a bill to Bill is rarely perfect streets dapper form initiale ; fell fact , somewhat of things are parfaites fell what everyone well imparfait . 
the Evolution of unabated measure legislative we montrera streets breaching sense we orienter yeas apporter of them amendments which amélioreront his effectiveness Act the Mifflin Plan Act protection of them information personnels everything fell respectant them interests legitimate of them businesses Forces streets blunt Act measure of the possible . 
a senator has posé series question at the topic of the whole of them services of health . 
i organize the AMC , and I believe understand that she applies the oath of Hippocrate , a code of conduct and a code of Ethics . 
all levels doctors , dentistes and pharmaciens repositories apply there conformer . 
confirms not wants not necessarily say that we devons wheel everything a assemblage hétéroclite of measures yeas prévenir blunt atteinte at the right at Act protection of the identity and the foreign information personnels at the Canada . 
honourable senators , I ai been very heureuse of constater that til Partnerships apporté of them changes at the bill to Bill presented at the departure at the another place . 
he rereads has strokes 16 amendments , and a certain number of between eux acclaimed responded at number of condolences questions and the condolences composition . 
analyzed , health definition of them information personnels has been amendée . 
health Modified is very importante , car the expression désigne now everybody what who faces rapporte at a individu identifiable . 
confirms apply applies at the foreign things commentator them caméras of monitoring , business caméras placées streets them toilettes , business information médicaux and dentaires , business information on Order pharmaceutique , business pharmacies who livrent them médicaments , and Oceans recherches . 
however , yeas we prémunir against blunt mistake - confirms is crucial , car our information personnels series once perdus , not arresting perhaps récupérés - , he is vital that royal definition apply étende at them members of them professions libérales and at them ONG . 
i voudrais that we apportions series Modified at unabated provision where the snakes trouve them définitions . 
if I cannot me abuse , unabated provision apply trouve streets Act part 1 , at the article 2 , that complements of lire the senator . 
bearer section définit what that he tangibly hear by activité commerciale . 
that is - what that series activité commerciale ? 
apply he remembered notional of series activité commerciale , the activité fell cause should perhaps couverte and she should understand the foreign professionals and the foreign agencies without but lucratif . 
i estimated that we réglerions analyzed some of them problems which acclaimed been Arising by various agencies . 
honourable senators , puis - I finishing , with your leave ? 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Finestone : 
he remembered notional of informations liées at the foreign êtres humans identifiables and , frankly , I cannot voudrais not penser at eux fell activist that groups or cercles différents . 
essentially , if the information that you prostituted me pertains and that you the ayez obtenue because that I you the ai demandée yeas ma police of insurance , the foreign services of health , the foreign services médicaux or dentaires , unabated information me appartient and she me pertains . 
commentator condolences grandchildren - child the disent , she is at moi . 
she is at moi and human not can apply the approprier if we adoptons what Bill of Bill correctement . 
the right to no not perhaps identifiables by ceux desquels we cannot souhaitons not perhaps connus - bref , the right to no not perhaps importunés - doit perhaps garanti streets the article of the bill to Bill where are énoncées them définitions . 
i voudrais well that we parvenions at the make . 
i hope that the minister acceptera of modify unabated definition and that he veillera at what that she précise that he we regardless little of where has been tirée unabated information anguishes how she is parvenue streets the world commercial if the intéressé who the has obtenue not Partnerships not the right to the make - he not Partnerships not ma leave , he not has not obtenu mon assentiment and I cannot veux not that he ait unabated information fell dapper possession . 
he tangibly also examiner Act question soulevée at the alinéa 7 ) 3 ) f ) the Government Bill of Bill relatively at Act communication of data at the foreign purposes of research . 
much of people apply plaignent of the utilisation of data at the foreign purposes of research . 
he rereads has moyen of utiliser of them data without identifier them persons . 
he not there has aucune reason yeas that til not puisse not the make . 
til can mener of them recherches without révéler the identity of them persons . 
health issue visée by unabated provision is the end word of the history . 
bref , honourable senators , what Bill of Bill is excellent same apply he doit perhaps développé and approfondi at some gloomy . 
i believe that the bill to Bill C - 6 , who fact part of health strategy necessary at unabated end , fingertips Act favour of health House and deviendra bill . 
i believe that we pourrons make affair without problem with the Union European . 
i believe that we respecterons them criteria of the OECD . 
more important still , I believe that we protégerons them information personnels of everyone the world . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Oliver , the debate is adjourned . ) 
perhaps honourable senators , I am particularly heureuse of parler fell favour of the bill to Bill S - 10 , who VI at modify Act Act Act Act defence national , health Act Act the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques analyzed that the Code criminal . 
what Bill of Bill existe streets series large measure thanks at the Senate and more specifically referred the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional . 
what Bill of Bill represents the aboutissement of a commitment that the Solicitor General has commitments the fall last when the committee examinait Act nouvelle Act Act the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques . 
commentator you you fell souviendrez can - perhaps , unabated bill introduces the établissement of series banque national of data génétiques who permettra of conserver the profil of identification génétique of individus who acclaimed commis of them crimes graves and violent . 
during his review , the committee has noticed that the bill to Bill not prévoyait aucune provision autorisant the levy to substances corporelles Act to them Offenders trouvés guilty of offences graves and violentes and traduits streets the framework of the system of justice military , levy whose business results are ensuite versés streets Act banque of data génétiques . 
the committee has exprimé ses concerns understandings at Act nature extremely délicate of them data génétiques , at the Evolution rapide of health technology regarding Casual empreintes génétiques and at them risks of porter atteinte at Act life privacy of them Canadians to manner imprévue . 
these concerns specialist amené the committee at recommander , streets his sixteenth Report , the apporter certaines improvements at them measures legislatures touchant Act banque of data génétiques . 
the Solicitor General apply guardian engagé at give subsequently at these recommendations fell déposant a bill to Bill distinct before Act implementation fell place to health banque national of data génétiques . 
Étant rose that the bill to Bill S - 10 répond at the foreign questions Arising at the Senate , the Solicitor General has asked expressément that he authorized presented at the Senate before the another place . 
i am convaincu that we apprécions all unabated initiative deM . 
i arrive now at the content of the bill to Bill No. 
he remembered notional of a bill to Bill hautement technical , truffé of renvois at the other Acts , but , basically , ses summarizing elements are very simples . 
everyone of thanking , the bill to Bill modifie Act Act Act Act defence national and health Act Act the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques of manner at inclure streets Act banque national of data génétiques them profils of them individus reconnus guilty of offence at the code of discipline military or the offences graves and violentes . 
the code apply applies at the staff military , at them Reserves and at some civilians who accompagnent them military at the abroad . 
the system of profils of identification génétique établi by the bill to Bill S - 10 yeas the army suit very étroitement the model of the system that the Parliament has created yeas them civilians . 
bye Act subsequently of series condamnation yeas the offence désignée , business judges military auront therefore the power to ordonner the levy to échantillons of substances corporelles Act to them persons justiciables of the code of discipline military . 
transport provisions of unabated bill rose trait at Act délivrance of mandats are adaptées at them particularités of the context military . 
analyzed , health police military rereads ask the foreign mandats regarding Casual analyses génétiques when she enquêtera Act to them offences of Order military who are comparables at them offences secondaires définies streets the Code criminal . 
transport changes apportent of them improvements notables at Act bill fell vigueur . 
streets the état Present of them things , health police military can apply adresser at a judge of series cour provinciale yeas obtain a mandate Covenant at the foreign analyses génétiques streets the framework of the inquiry Act series offence désignée commise at the Canada , but she never can not obtain what mandate if the offence took been commise at the abroad . 
health list of them offences désignées contenue streets the Code criminal not inclut not certaines offences graves at them termes of health Act Act Act defence national or certaines offences at uniqueness strictly military , by example , health mutinerie with violence . 
the bill to Bill donnera at them judges military the power to émettre of them mandats relatifs at them analyses génétiques fell case of offences at Act Act Act Act defence national of sorte that royal police military puisse mener of them investigations relegates more efficaces activist at the Canada that at the abroad . 
series second series of changes Location streets what Bill of Bill répond directly at them recommendations of the committee sénatorial . 
what Bill of Bill gives at the Senate Committee same power that royal House of them Commons yeas what who is the examiner Act Act Act the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques five years after dapper proclamation . 
these changes visent specifically referred give at the Parliament them outils nécessaires yeas surveiller the effectiveness of health banque of data Act series certaine period , what who guardian series préoccupation of the Senate . 
the third Main élément who is amended is the énoncé of them principles of health Act Act the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques , who is élargi . 
he arranged précisé that foreign substances corporelles prélevées and Oceans profils génétiques établis at partir of these substances not arresting perhaps utilisés that at them purposes of application of health law . 
unabated Modified VI at respond at them concerns of the committee sénatorial at the topic of health mauvaise utilisation possible for them profils génétiques , by example yeas determine them caractéristiques médicales , physiques or mentales of series human . 
fell fact , confirms rejoint certaines of them questions soulevées durant the debate Act them information personnels . 
unabated banque of data has yeas objet of identifier them persons , commentator til can already the make at the moyen of them empreintes digitales . 
he not apply notional not and he not apply agira never the compiler of them information on Order staff . 
the foreign changes Location at the Code criminal permettront of protect also against everything mauvais usage them data génétiques of them persons justiciables of the code of discipline military . 
transport other changes to unabated bill auront yeas effect of clarify and the strengthen the regime of levy to substances corporelles . 
pursuant at the nouveau principle whose I viens of you parler , the Code criminal arranged amended the sorte that the system of justice military arranged also assujetti at the prohibition of utiliser at the foreign purposes non autorisées them substances corporelles prélevées and Oceans results of their analysis génétique . 
finally , what Bill of Bill comporte a certain number of changes to Order practice at the Code criminal afin of ensure Act implementation fell implementation of health Act Act the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques . 
the Code criminal is therefore clarifié at bearer regard puisque he rereads is said that royal something not has not at perhaps ordonnée if the lawyer of health crown informe the court that the profil génétique of health human visée apply trouve already streets Act banque national of data génétiques . 
til rendra analyzed the system more efficient and til évitera them Estimates inutiles occasionnées by Act Donor and the analysis fell double the foreign échantillons of substances corporelles prélevés Act them délinquants récidivistes . 
streets them case where the foreign délinquants are envoyés streets series another province before that a Order of levy to a échantillon not ait been exécuté , business judges of courts provinciaux pourront approve the Order or the Authorized who has been accordé streets Act province of where 6,000 them délinquants fell question . 
two provisions of the Code criminal , who never étaient not yet fell vigueur , uncovered abrogées at cause of them consequences négatives that thin auraient yeas the administration of health justice . 
he remembered notional of the obligation , yeas a agent of health peace , the inform series human visée by series ordonnance or a mandate Covenant at them analyses génétiques that she can express dapper préférence understandings at Act substance corporelle at prélever - blood , salive or cheveu - and the Government obligation to the agent of health peace - heed account the Day préférence exprimée . 
these provisions posent a problem because that nothing streets the right pénal not contraint Act police at laisser series human who fact the objet of series inquiry choose the mode of Donor of them elements of proof . 
who more is , commentator the acclaimed underlined them representatives of them provinces and the foreign territories , business judges prescrivent already streets them mandats Act procedure of inquiry at suivre , and if til laisse Act human choose , confirms équivaudrait at make prévaloir dapper decision against celle of a judge . 
series another provision of the Code criminal arranged abrogée . 
she pertains the entrée consensuelle streets Act banque of data génétiques of them results of them prélèvements of substances corporelles fournies volontairement or effectués fell vertu of a mandate autorisant Act réalisation of analyses génétiques durant the inquiry . 
transport laboratoires judiciaires Airports acclaimed fact savoir that they not étaient not fell favour of entrer them results of them prélèvements of substances corporelles and Oceans profils génétiques who fell découlent streets Act banque of data streets these cases - là , car them substances corporelles and Oceans profils génériques are usually conservés yeas serve the pièce at conviction at the case where he rereads aurait a nouveau procès . 
fell outre , business échantillons prélevés fell vertu of a mandate autorisant of reassess prélèvements , contrairement at ceux who uncovered prélevés yeas Act banque of data after Act condamnation , are assortis of codifies of identification personnels . 
he arranged therefore more difficult yeas Act RCMP of protect them rights at Act life privacy of them individus , analyzed that the prescrit Act Act Act the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques . 
yeas avoid everything problem , til considère now necessary to prélever of nouveaux échantillons of substances corporelles each once that he rereads has series ordonnance yeas their inclusion streets Act banque of data , what is - at - say after Act condamnation . 
fell conclusion , the bill to Bill S - 10 move some amendments at Act Act Act Act defence national , at Act Act Act the identification of them empreintes génétiques and at the Code criminal fell standpoint of permettre Act implementation fell place effective of series banque of data of data génétiques complète . 
nay only he gives subsequently at them recommendations of the committee sénatorial , but fell more he affine Act bill Act Act banque of data at the foreign purposes of application practice . 
commitments together , these changes auxquels we awakened streets unabated House commitments series share importante aideront at protect the right to them Canadians at Act life privacy everything fell dotant Act police , yeas ses investigations , the one tool of upper technicité who permettra of improving Act security Public . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Kinsella , at the name of the senator Nolin , the debate is adjourné . ) 
bill to Bill of 1999 yeas Act implementation fell 9uvre of conventions fiscales 
second reading - Adjourned of the debate 
perhaps honourable senators , I am heureuse of amorcer the debate at the phase of health second reading of the bill to Bill S - 3 . 
what text législatif has yeas objet of allegiances fell implementation of them conventions fiscales conclues between the Canada and seven country - Government Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , health Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzbékistan and health Jordanie - with lesquels the Canada not has not to conventions fiscales fell vigueur currently . 
the bill to Bill door also creation of series nouvelle convention remplaçant Act convention actuelle with the Luxembourg and met fell implementation a protocole who modifie of them parties to health convention conclue with the Japan . 
before the approfondir the bill to Bill , I query prendre a moment yeas établir the context streets lequel he remembered sciences . 
bye the moment where the regime of the tax Act the Income of the Canada has been examiné and révisé fell 1971 , he fell has notamment résulté a élargissement of our network of conventions fiscales with the other countries . 
bye the hour actuelle , the foreign conventions fiscales between the Canada and 65 country are fell vigueur . 
honourable senators , he you intéressera can - perhaps the savoir that since 1976 , 24 bills of Bill of conventions fiscales acclaimed been déposés at the Parliament . Dans them two dernières years only , the foreign conventions or the foreign protocoles acclaimed been établis with 14 country . 
transport conventions fiscales are particularly importantes yeas the Canada because that thin are directly liées at the trade international of products and the services and that thin acclaimed therefore series incidence directe Act their performance economic intérieure . 
unabated incidence is grande . 
transport exports Forces représentent now more of 40p. cent of our product intérieur gross annual . 
fell outre , health health economic of the Canada each year richly also Act the investment abroad direct analyzed that Act the influx of information , the capitaux , the technology , the royalties , the dividends and the interests . 
he is therefore obvious that foreign conventions fiscales prescribed streets the bill to Bill S - 3 profiteront at them businesses and at them particuliers Airports who exercent of them activities and who détiennent of them investment streets these countries . 
transport taxpayers Airports uncovered notamment happy to learn that a rate of Tolls fixé by convention not can perhaps augmenté without a term préavis . 
the most , the Government simple fact of their existence , business conventions fiscales créeront a climate of certainty and the stability yeas them investors and Oceans négociants . 
what climate not rereads that improve them relations Economic that entretient the Canada with composite of these countries . 
fell outre , fell éliminant Act necessity of payer of the tax Act some bénéfices of congruent and fell établissant a mechanism of settlement of them problems éprouvés by foreign taxpayers , he arranged possible for reduce Act complexité and the incommodité of the regime fiscal commentator tel . 
the fact of streamline the regime of them conventions fiscales stimulera the activité international , what who fingertips a effect favorable Act the economy canadienne . 
finally , the Elimination or the atténuation of health double Imposition who could otherwise survenir streets the framework of them operations internationales constituera the most grandfather advantage . 
if the snakes prend fell account Act convention which remplace celle fell vigueur with the Luxembourg , business nouvelles conventions prescribed streets the bill to Bill S - 3 visent two grands objectives : avoid Act double Imposition and prévenir Act fraude fiscale . 
these problems are already commitments fell considération streets Act convention fell vigueur with the Japan . 
i me permets of consigned that streets the case of them conventions fiscales antérieures , these conventions are grandement inspirées of the model of double Imposition préparé by the Organization of cooperation and the development Economic . 
health possibility of double Imposition survient when a taxpayer réside streets a country and that he gagne a income streets a another country . 
without convention fiscale , business two country arresting réclamer of the tax Act what income . 
transport conventions of double Imposition Cutbacks fell sorte that the same income not puisse perhaps imposed two once . 
transport conventions fiscales conclues by the Canada apply attaquent at what problem of two façons . 
premièrement , fell répartissant them rights of Tolls between the country of residence of the taxpayer and the country of origin of the Income . 
deuxièmement , if the Income is néanmoins imposable streets them two country , fell exigeant of the country of residence that he considère the Income commentator étant exonéré of tax or fell accordant a credit at the subheading of the tax payé at the country of origin . 
the same , business conventions of double Imposition favorisent the exchange of information between them authorities fiscales fell standpoint of prévenir Act fraude or the evasion fiscale . 
what is the second objective of these conventions . 
the sharing the Government information assistance them authorities fiscales at cerner them case of fraude and the evasion fiscale and at there remédier . 
fell what who has trait at them conventions prescribed streets the bill to Bill S - 3 , each country accordera the allégement who convient at the subheading of the tax payé streets the another country part at Act convention fiscale . 
the Canada and Oceans other countries appliquent usually of them taxes of retenue at various genres of incomes of non - résidents . 
the country of where is tiré the Income can retenir of them taxes but at a rate who faces limite usually at 5 , 10 or 15p. cent Act them dividends and Oceans bénéfices of them succursales and at 10p. cent streets the case of them interests and the foreign royalties . 
streets some cases , business royalties payées at the subheading of them rights of author , the foreign logiciels , the foreign brevets and the Government savoir - make are exonérées at Act source . 
health convention conclue with the Kirghizistan , by example , limite the rate of health retenue of tax at 15p. cent streets the case of them dividends , the foreign interests and the foreign bénéfices of succursales and à10p. cent streets the case of them royalties . 
he existe certaines exonérations yeas what who is the foreign interests analyzed that the foreign royalties Act them rights of author , business logiciels , business brevets and the savoir - make . 
health convention conclue with the Lebanon introduces series retenue of tax - 5p. cent Act them dividends versés at series society who détient at the least 10p. cent of them Senators ' health society who verse them dividends and the 15p. cent streets all levels other cases . 
transport bénéfices of succursales and Oceans royalties Act them rights of author , business logiciels , business brevets and the savoir - make uncovered imposed at a rate of 5p. cent and Oceans interests at a rate of 10p. cent . 
yeas the Algeria , a tax - 15p. cent arranged retenu streets the case of all levels dividends , interests and royalties , and certaines exonérations are prescribed yeas them interests and Oceans royalties Act them logiciels and Oceans brevets . 
health convention conclue with Act Bulgaria introduces the application of series retenue of tax - 10p. cent Act them dividends payés at series society détenant at the least 10p. cent of them Senators ' health society who verse them dividends , and the 15p. cent streets all levels other cases . 
yeas what who the Day convention conclue with the Portugal , series society doit détenir at the least 25p. cent of them Senators ' health society who verse them dividends yeas wheel right at series retenue of tax de10p. cent Act them dividends . 
series retenue of 15p. cent apply appliquera streets all levels other cases . 
series retenue of 10p. cent apply appliquera also at them interests and royalties , at few exceptions close yeas them interests . 
fell what who has trait at the Ouzbékistan , the rate of retenue of tax who faces appliquera at them dividends payés at series society who détient at the least 10p. cent of them Senators ' society who verse them dividends arranged of 5p. cent and the 15p. cent streets all levels other cases . 
a rate of 10p. cent apply appliquera at them interests and at them royalties , and a tax - 5p. cent arranged prélevé Act them rights of author , business brevets , business logiciels and the savoir - make . 
health nouvelle convention conclue with Act Jordanie établit à10p. cent Act retenue of tax who faces applies at them dividends payés at series society détenant at the least 10p. cent of them Senators ' health society who verse them dividends , and at 15p. cent , celle who faces applies streets all levels other cases . 
health convention introduces also series retenue of 10p. cent Act them interests and Oceans royalties , certaines exonérations apply appliquant at them interests Act them 209 gouvernementaux and garantis by the government . 
the bill to Bill S - 3 remplace the actuelle convention of 1989 conclue with the Luxembourg and introduces the application of series retenue of tax - 5p. cent Act them dividends yeas series society who détient at the least 10p. cent of them Senators ' health society who verse them dividends , and the 15p. cent streets all levels other cases . 
a rate of 10p. cent apply appliquera at them interests and at them royalties , the nouveau at few exceptions close yeas them interests and Oceans royalties Act them logiciels , business brevets and the savoir - make . 
the bill to Bill S - 3 modifie also the actuelle convention of 1986 conclue with the Japan . 
the protocole with the Japan fact mood of 10 at 5p. cent the tax retenu Act them dividends between companies and he éclaircit a certain number of other provisions . 
fell outre , the protocole door specifically Act Act question of them taxes Japanese of congruent fell exonérant of these taxes them companies Forces who exploitent of them ships or the foreign aéronefs streets the field of the transportation intercontinental , series measure of courtesy already granted by foreign provinces Forces at them companies japonaises who exercent of them activities semblables . 
honourable senators , business conventions that derogation the bill to Bill S - 3 portent also Act to other matters of conventions fiscales . 
by example , the country of origin can impose them gains fell capital réalisés at the aliénation of a well immobilier , the actifs trading and the actions streets them companies immobilières or the Day participation streets of them fiducies or the foreign companies of persons immobilières . 
health discrimination fondée Act Act nationalité of a taxpayer is interdite . 
however , business measures incitatives commentator Act déduction granted at them small businesses and the credit for tax yeas dividends whose profitent them Canadians not are not touchées . 
before the conclude , I query me pencher Act Act question of them migrations of them taxpayers . 
four of them conventions prescribed streets what Bill of Bill tiennent account the genus certaine way of them rules Act Act migration of them taxpayers who acclaimed been proposées by the minister of them Finance and who feront part of the bill to Bill budgétaire of 1999 . 
these proposals visent at modify Act Act to the tax Act the Income of way at what that the Canada conserve the right to impose them gains réalisés by foreign immigrants during their séjour here . 
bye the moment of tribute public the bill to Bill fell December last , the minister has announced that the Canada renégocierait ses conventions fiscales yeas heed account the foreign nouvelles rules afin of avoid Act double Imposition . 
analyzed , fell attendant that these rules aient strength of Bill , the Canada has négocié ses conventions fiscales of manner at avoid Act double Imposition at the moment where them gains réalisés by the foreign immigrants , before their departure , are imposés . 
fell what who pertains the bill to Bill S - 3 , business conventions with the Luxembourg , the Portugal , the Lebanon and health Jordanie tiennent account the Day migration of them taxpayers . 
however , business conventions with the Ouzbékistan , health Bulgaria , the Algeria and the Khirghizistan not fell tiennent not account étant rose that thin acclaimed been négociées before the announcement of them proposals . 
the Japan has asked that unabated question of health migration of them taxpayers authorized examinée streets the framework of futures negotiations entourant Act convention . 
yeas conclude , I query souligner that foreign conventions fiscales that derogation what Bill of Bill are conçues yeas atténuer Act double Imposition international of them incomes transférés of a country at a another . 
these conventions fiscales permettront of make fell sorte that foreign policies fiscales Forces soient appliquées uniformément at them operations conclues with the Khirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , health Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzbékistan , health Jordanie , the Japan and the Luxembourg . Elles créeront also a climate of stability yeas them investors and Oceans négociants Airports streets these countries . 
honourable senators , the bill to Bill S - 3 is a text législatif of Nature courante who VI series Imposition equitable and the maintien of bonnes relations internationales and commerciales . 
the equity of the regime fiscal - which , commentator we the savons all , constitue series priority of the state - requiert that nil Quebecer not apply trouve commitments at the piège of health double Imposition . 
gold , these conventions fiscales visent specifically referred éliminer Act double Imposition . 
before the conclude , I query souligner the work magnificent of the team of experts who acclaimed accompagné what process term and minutieux of our government . 
these officials acclaimed served them interests of the Canada Subcommittee on habile direction of their Minister respectif at them Finance and at Act Howe . 
they deserve all our remerciements . 
commentator what text of Bill not raises aucune controversy , I you invite instamment at the appuyer . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Lynch - Staunton , the debate is adjourned . ) 
the speech of the trône 
motion of Adopted of the Adresse fell response - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Kroft , seconded by the Honourable Senator Furey , Refer at the adoption of series Adresse at His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale fell response at the speech that Elle has prononcé lors of the opening of health second session of health trente - sixth session législature . - 
( 3e day to health resuming the Government debate . ) 
the Honourable William Kelly : 
honourable senators , I am ravi of see that autant of senators ' what side - ci soient restés yeas me hear bearer after - afternoon . 
i ai therefore well the intent of fell profiter at the maximum . 
i me brevity of the commitment commitments streets the speech of the Trône " the veiller at what that foreign Forces Forces soient fell measure of appuyer the role of the Canada yeas contributing at Act security streets the world " . 
gardons - we however the subamendment - estimer Act measure streets laquelle we analyzed referendums of honorer bearer commitment . 
since 1988 , business Estimates engagées at the subheading of health defence national acclaimed diminué fell $ constants , year after year , at the standpoint that the power to achat of the budget of health defence is today today at somewhat close équivalent at gerrymandering of the beginning of them years 70 . 
transport afford whose we disposons yeas purchase the equipment necessary and fell ensure the maintenance acclaimed been particularly affaiblis by subsequently of GoVernment budgétaires . 
the effectif of them forces Armed actives , who guardian of 87,870 40,000 persons fell 1989 - 1990 , should , according them forecasts , diminuer of 60 40,000 of here at Act end of the fiscal financier fell surveillance . 
we cannot impotent already more fell measure of constituer of them units combattantes yeas the Armée of earth , authorized the minimum acceptable yeas mener series Action military sustainable . 
according them data publiées by the NATO , the Canada apply sciences at the last rang of them country members yeas what who is the foreign effectifs of health Force régulière and the foreign Forces premières and secondaires of contingency . 
he rereads fell has who prétendent that royal end of health War Cold has aboli Act necessity of maintain series ability military imposante and permanente and has created series perspective of " dividende of peace " . 
commentator I the ai often said fell unabated House , I believe that they apply trompent totalement . 
transport threats at Act security and their sources acclaimed can - perhaps changed , but the world of today today is potentiellement more instable , dangerous and imprévisible that never . 
health possibility of conflits premises and regional déclenchés by the foreign mouvements séparatistes nationalists is always présente streets all levels coins of the globe . 
health threat of terrorism by the foreign States renégats and the foreign groups rebelles existe always . 
honourable senators , I persiste at croire that foreign repercussions internationales of them échecs of some U.S. constitueront Act principale threat at Act security of the Canada and the foreign Canadians streets a future prévisible . 
that what authorized fell Africa , streets the ex - Union Soviet , fell Asia - Government South - east , fell America centrale or fell America of the South , he arrive that the foreign States apply désorganisent , commentator til the has seen already , yeas various reasons Economic , environnementales or policies . 
health désintégration of a Crown crée a vacuum of power that apply empressent often of fill the foreign groups criminals or terroristes who , at their tour , menacent Act security of them other States . 
til trouve of them examples of dictatorship streets the ex - Union Soviet . 
the effritement of the power Civil has done naître blunt series series of activity sordides . 
honourable senators , the month last by example , business authorities russes acclaimed arrêté six persons at Vladivostok who faces apprêtaient at sortir of the country six kilogrammes of uranium 238 yeas the sell at the outside . 
bearer uranium provenait of series plant where the snakes démantelait certaines parties to the stock nucléaire Soviet and the foreign terroristes or the foreign groups criminals auraient avoided the utiliser yeas manufacture the foreign bombes nuclear small certes , but very destructrices . 
what is at cause of threats of what kind that we devons demeurer vigilants and maintain fell permanence a bon service of Intelligence of security and series army compétente . 
i brevity the government ' his commitment loyalty them military , but I hope see davantage of details streets the next budget federal . 
the speech of the Trône précise them plans to the government yeas the arrival of the nouveau millennium . 
til said often that what Premier Minister and his government manquent of vision . 
he rereads has much of belles paroles streets the speech of the Trône Act Act preparedness at the nouveau millennium . 
i reconnais that at several occasions til parle of facilitate , by example , the trade électronique and the access at Internet , but confirms not constitue not series vision globale yeas garantir the future of the Canada . 
health mondialisation of them economies signifie that toutes them economies deviennent of more fell more interdépendantes . 
fell fact , soon , he not there fingertips more what that til appelle series " economy intérieure " . 
he not there fingertips more than series Gotcha economy and a odyssey market . 
transport economies , business markets and health competition not uncovered not limités by foreign frontières nationales or régionales . 
he not there fingertips more of frontières . 
between - time , all levels investors and people of affairs internationaux procèdent continuellement at a review détaillé who never aurait never been possible auparavant , the toutes them economies intérieures , there including celle of the Canada . 
transport progress streets them technologies of them telecommunications , mostly them progress streets the trade électronique , Cutbacks that foreign investment arresting perhaps effectués and the foreign decisions arresting perhaps prises fell millisecondes . 
transport capitaux arresting entrer streets a country or fell sortir fell a instant . 
the year dernière , we awakened been witnesses can - perhaps the Government Prime example of them repercussions of these forces and the Government trade électronique Act the economy of them First of the Asia - Government South - east and the Government Pacific . 
these importantes fuites of capitaux représentaient a vote of non - confidence by foreign investors internationaux and health community of them Affairs . 
transport repercussions apply Cutbacks sentir of our days streets of them country individuels , there including at the Canada , and streets the world entier . 
bye Act subsequently of health crisis Asian , the surveillance of the dollar Heritage has baissé by report at the dollar validate Robbie that foreign cambistes acclaimed bought the most of $ trillion possible yeas apply protect against foreign devises asiatiques . 
our exports toward the Extrême - Middle acclaimed souffert Robbie that royal crisis has entraîne series chute of them price of them products of basic . 
transport capitaux and Oceans businesses cannot are more liés by Act géographie , the time or telecommunications allégeances nationales . 
series economy or a government which no apply comporte not commentator them Banking , business financiers , business courtiers fell values mobilières and Oceans agences of cotation streets them capitales Projections the voudraient arresting make the objet , quickly and arbitrairement , he is true , the sanctions very dures . 
even if we cannot aimons can - perhaps not confirms , he not fell remains not least that the Canada not has not to another option that the enfiler what that til appelle a " corset economic " which shows at all that the Canada is a bon place where invest and make the foreign Affairs at the surveillance of the nouveau millennium . 
the art of gouverner arranged of ajuster what corset economic afin of improving Act situation of the Canada and the foreign Canadians at better respond to their requirements and the protect them things which are spéciales yeas them Canadians and who Cutbacks part of our mode of life , commentator by example , our system attain of care of health . 
whereupon that he fell authorized , at the moment where we allons aborder the nouveau millennium , the Canada has much at make . 
health debt globale of them paliers federal , dd and municipal is too élevée and continues to croître . 
our niveaux of Tolls personnelle représentent a burden excessif . 
fell dépit of improvements importantes who acclaimed been Location at the surveillance of them two dernières decades , our economy comprend always much of regulations and the paperasserie . 
we analyzed always widely tributaires of them resources Natural . 
approximately 40p. cent of the GDP of the Canada découlent of the trade of our resources Natural . 
he rereads has always the too nombreux barriers at the trade , at the investment and at Act mobility of health main - Request implementation at the country . 
fell dépit of them progress considérables accomplis at the surveillance of them dernières years , our infrastructures of basic streets them sectors of the adduction of water , the foreign égouts and the Government transportation , particularly streets them grandes cities , exigent of them rénovations and the foreign improvements importantes . 
we devons make more fell standpoint of improving our productivity . 
we devons fell make more streets them sectors of the education , the Day research and the Government development afin of devenir the kind of society innovatrice and adaptable who paving non only survivre but who paving also prospérer at the surveillance of the next millennium . 
he existe always a gap considérable between what that the Canada is and what that he could devenir . 
bye bearer regard , I brevity the government which has commitments the commitment streets the speech of the Trône of introduce to nouveau series measure legislative visant at protect them information personnels and trading streets a univers numérique and at reconnaître them signatures électroniques . 
the semblables initiatives are essentielles if the Canada and Oceans Canadians veulent perhaps fell measure of bénéficier fully the foreign opportunities offertes by the Internet and the trade électronique . 
honourable senators , the évocation of the blanchiment of money me remind that the government apply is engagé streets the speech of the Trône at allegiances the accent Act them threats nouvelles auxquelles repositories make opposite them Canadians , commentator the blanchiment of the money . 
according the Department of them Finance , the 5 at 5:30 billion to $ , or commentator I the ai read streets the newspaper what morning of 17 at 40 billion to $ transitent each year illégalement at the Canada or by the intermédiaire of the Canada . 
the Group of Action financière Act the blanchiment of capitaux , who faces composede 26 country , comprenant the Canada , health Commission European and the Council of cooperation of the Gulf arabe , has constamment critiqué the inaction of the Canada . 
health promise introductory streets the speech of the Trône is encourageante . 
however , we awakened of the pain Act Act planche . 
honourable senators , the fact that the speech of the Trône parle insuffisamment of the problem of the Immigration illégale at the and by the Canada me has frankly much gêné . 
we savons that afin of Welfare prospère durant the next millennium , the Canada doit continue to attirer of them immigrants of the world entier . 
he is however préoccupant that our country not atteigne not ses objectives understandings at the number of immigrants reçus . 
the Canada has attiré 13p. cent of immigrants of less fell 1998 that at the surveillance of the year précédente . 
we semblons connaître of them difficulties particulières yeas attirer of them workers and the foreign professionals competent . 
however , confirms not signifie not that we devions fermer them yeux Act the problem croissant of the Immigration illégale at the Canada , fell provenance of various regions of the world . 
he remembered notional of a problem urgent , whose business causes profondes résident streets our process of recognition of the status of Refugee . 
honourable senators , health rectitude policy rend difficult Act tenue of a debate opened and rationnel Act our political and our procedures liées at the status of Refugee . 
blunt human who lancerait a tel debate or who remettrait fell question the quo quo court the risk of Welfare qualifiée of raciste or the anti - immigrant . 
he not sert at nothing to consigned that royal plupart of them immigrants illégaux not fuient not Act persécution yeas their beliefs religieuses , political or other , but that what are the foreign refugees voulant improve their situation economic . 
the same , he not sert at nothing to make remarquer that these immigrants illégaux acclaimed enfreint Act bill canadienne and that what is series very mauvaise manner of commencer series nouvelle life at the Canada . 
i am enough proud that the committee Special récent Act Act security that I ai chaired ait identifié and démontré the problem croissant of the Immigration illégale organisée at the Canada before that he not authorized very médiatisé and not atteigne the summum of dapper médiatisation the summer last . 
the Immigration illégale at the Canada threat the integrity of blunt our policy of Immigration . 
ceux who demandent at venir at the Canada fell apply soumettant at toutes them procedures grab them illégaux them devancer . 
til knows also that series grande part of the Immigration illégale is the fact of organizations criminelles . 
nay only these organizations are particularly méchantes , but thin Cutbacks also payer very cher at them immigrants , at them plans financier and staff , the privilege of venir fell America of the North . 
a grandfather number of these immigrants are réduits at Act servitude yeas payer their debts at them gangs criminals , at them " snakeheads " , who them acclaimed fact mood illégalement at the Canada . 
i ai been happy to learn that a judge of London Partnerships recently condamné four passeurs at the foreign peines of emprisonnement variant between 7 and 14 years . 
according them documents déposés at the court , business passeurs specialist extorqué approximately a million for $ at their clients . 
the judge has qualifié their activity of méchantes , cruelles and impitoyables . 
we cannot cynicism of cadeau at human fell fermant them yeux Act the Immigration illégale . 
ceux who profitent the most of our laxisme and the our approach naïve of health determination of the status of Refugee are them elements criminals who faces livrent at unabated activité . 
we devons reconnaître that the Immigration illégale not is not a problem strictly attain . 
if the Canada wants collaborer étroitement with the government validate yeas modernize our border commune during the XXIe century , commentator til the promet streets the speech of the Trône , unabated modernization doit make fell sorte that our other frontières deviennent less poreuses yeas them organizations of passeurs . 
bye mon notice , health difficulty not réside not streets our laws , but streets their application . 
transport problems of application acclaimed been signalés at maintes occasions . 
the study réalisée by the group of work overburdened Act foot by the former minister of health Citizenship and the Government Citizenship has conclu that he not there Partnerships not to system effective fell place yeas Auditing the respect to them conditions imposées by foreign agents of Immigration at them demandeurs of the status of Refugee . 
fell outre , the Department of health Citizenship and the Government Citizenship not surveille not them allées and venues of health plupart of them demandeurs of the status of Refugee , there including individuals thousands of persons who attendent series audition fell matière of Immigration or who are Subcommittee on coup of series expulsion . 
til prend them empreintes digitales of them demandeurs of the status of Refugee at them points of entrée afin of power determine apply they acclaimed a casier judicial or apply they constitute series threat at Act security of the state . 
however , business agents of Immigration acclaimed said at the committee sénatorial Special that royal training and the équipement dactyloscopiques whose they disposent are reassess that foreign empreintes that they prennent are at toutes purposes practices inutiles and the habitude simply stockées . 
by conséquent , we awakened need non not to nouvelles laws or measures , but the genus volonté policy and the foreign resources nécessaires yeas allegiances fell implementation and appliquer them laws and Oceans measures existantes . 
health detention of immigrants illégaux is manifestement series question délicate . 
contrairement at them States - U.S. and at the other countries , we cannot emprisonnons not them immigrants illégaux at least the wheel of them reasons of croire that they are the foreign criminals or that they constitute series threat yeas Act security of the state . 
health minister of health Citizenship and the Government Citizenship apply oppose at Act detention of them immigrants illégaux because that they not acclaimed nothing fact of evil . 
she estimated therefore that foreign emprisonner serait of the least contrary at Act Charter of them rights and freedoms . 
bye mon sense - and I know that what not is not series opinion popular - Provincial immigrants illégaux acclaimed fact something something of evil . 
they acclaimed sciemment and volontairement violé Act législation canadienne of the Immigration and confirms should perhaps series reason suffisante of them emprisonner until at their audience relative at Act recognition of the status of Refugee . 
however , the process doit perhaps accéléré . 
transport decisions repositories venir fell time opportun . 
til not can not détenir of them people during the foreign months because that til lack of staff yeas accomplir the work promptement . 
finally , honourable senators , I brevity the government ' apply perhaps engagé at strengthen Act ability to health RCMP and the other agencies of contrer them threats at Act security Public at the Canada and the collaborer with them forces of the Order of other countries . 
what is commendable , but , I the répète , he tangibly decide until where til can aller . 
yet là , I am impatient of see them details streets the next budget . 
honourable senators , at the approach to the nouveau millennium , he convient of réfléchir at them cent dernières years . 
the century who faces achève has been marqué by series instability incredible and the foreign massacres sanglants without precedent attribuables essentially at the nationalism inconsidéré and at the extrémisme idéologique . 
what fut also a century of progress without precedent . 
transport people who acclaimed lived fell 1899 not reconnaîtraient more the world of today today . 
he tangibly espérer that we awakened tiré of them lessons of the XXe century and that foreign progress réalisés we vaudront a nouveau century later fair , unless déchiré by foreign guerres and Oceans excesses of nationalism and the idéologie , where Act freedom economic and political arranged respectée . 
if we awakened learned our lessons , the next century we réservera at us and at the world entier of them opportunities inimaginables . 
finally , honourable senators , streets the world complex toward lequel we ourselves dirigeons , I souhaite la meilleure of them chances at the government , at gerrymandering at the power currently and at ceux who him succéderont . 
he faudra énormément of wisdom yeas réussir at the future , much more than by toutes them years antérieures . 
the Honourable B . Alasdair Graham : 
the elsewhere , I brevity all levels honourable senators who acclaimed participated at the one of them more importants debates parliamentarians of our history . 
i thank fell particular the Leader of the government and the Leader of the Opposition yeas their bonnes paroles . 
i tiens at say at the senator Lynch - Staunton and at all levels honourable senators that I their am reconnaissants of their patience , the their good mood and the Day quality of them advice who me acclaimed been prodigués during Senators périodes of questions and at the other occasions when the ex - Leader of the government has been appelé at participate , at the surveillance of them two dernières years and demie , at the foreign échanges sometimes enough vigoureux . 
he rereads has can - perhaps strokes few rare occasions where he has been necessary to make Appeal at the assistance to colleagues , but I hope that all levels honourable senators comprendront that I me am always efforcé of fournir the information Act more précise and health later complète possible account tenu of them circumstances . 
honourable senators , when Vaclav Havel , President of health Republic tchèque , has commitments Act parole appeared them two Houses of the Parliament lors of series récente visit at the Canada , he has spoke of a world fell plein milieu of series period of changes radicaux . 
" justice more grande value , what is the humanity " , has he said , " and the state existe yeas serve the course public fell laissant them rights and Oceans freedoms apply épanouir at their maximum . " 
he has ensuite vanté the Canada , countries who trouve of nouvelles voies permettant of tribute the world meilleur and has added that " the Ethics canadienne " jouissait of a carking respect streets his country . 
the Ethics canadienne is reconnue by much of other countries , who Act partagent . 
the chairman Chirac there has done allusion lors of the Sommet of health Francophonie , at Moncton , when he has décrit the Canada commentator étant " a vast country which cherche and trouve of them rules of coexistence streets Act peace and health tolerance " . 
commentator the chairman Clinton , who has overburdened of side his speech préparé at the Mont - Tremblant and has spoke with his heart of the importance historic of health federation canadienne , we all , who écoutions , awakened pensé at them fondements intellectuels Act lesquels has been édifié our country , at Act reform and at Act justice social , at Act compassion and at the attachement at the Inuvialuit . 
the attachement Heritage at the course public is a concept who faces retrouve at the heart of unabated collectivité well spéciale . 
he has done to our society honnête , civilisée and tolérante a instead of espoir and the promises yeas of them million for persons of everywhere streets the world . 
fell écoutant dapper wife , His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale of the Canada , lire the speech of the Trône le12 October last , he me is apparu clearly that royal passion national permanente , health passion yeas a balance and yeas the service of health population , the heart of what that we analyzed and the essence of our origines , remains , fell spirit , also vital and dynamic that at the everything early of our history . 
bye well - Provincial égards , honourable senators , the speech of the Trône we took propulsés streets the future . 
he indique Act voie at them Canadians who aspirent at series exodus identity , at series exodus appartenance analyzed that at toutes them values which constitute the touchstone of our identity national fell unabated end of decade difficult and périlleuse certes , but combien passionnante and rich fell aventures . 
now that the government has overburdened of the Order streets them finances translated and that the economy is damned and fell plein essor , we pouvons mood at series nouvelle ère of management Public financièrement responsible , but at visage timeless . 
thanks at the improvement continues to health health financière of the country , we ourselves efforcerons davantage of accroître the Income disposable of them ménages Airports and the permettre at them businesses of the country of better soutenir Act competition streets the economy fondée Act Act knowledge . 
we awakened began at alléger them taxes same before Act deleting the Government deficit budgétaire . 
our strategy équilibrée we took licences of reduce them taxes of something 16,5 billion to $ Act three years and , by Act same opportunity , the rayer600 40,000 Canadians to them rôles of Tolls fédéraux , everything fell faisant of them investment clés streets of them sectors commentator the acquisition of connaissances and health health , analyzed that the assistance at the boyhood , the foreign sectors who are really importants yeas them Canadians . We savons however that foreign réductions of taxes not constitute that a élément of the équation . 
transport Canadians apply attendent at much more of the government . 
they rejettent Act teachings that the government not is that a percepteur of taxes and a comptable - that he not think that at them results at court term and at the performance net . 
transport Canadians not veulent not to grands écarts between them riches and Oceans poor . 
apply they acclaimed accepted them durs sacrifices of them dernières years , croyant that they specialist the duty to the make fell activist that citizens of our grandfather country , they acclaimed constamment fact savoir at them powers publics that the EI - illness Universal , by example , not is not négociable . 
they acclaimed réaffirmé that the EI - illness Universal constitue a touchstone of the identity canadienne . 
the foreign care of health abordables and the quality are series caractéristique of health life at the Canada . 
what is series Gallery of our society , the expression of health compassion who fact of the Canada a country if unique . 
streets the speech of the Trône , the government Liberal réitère his commitment ferme at maintain the one of them meilleurs regimes publics of the world . 
bye the heart of our efforts fell matière of Innovation apply trouvent them instituts Airports of health health who feront Act promotion of health research medical at Act fine sunrise of health technology streets toutes them regions and toutes them disciplines and who obtiendront series subvention of 500 million for $ . 
the government wants travailler with ses partners provinciaux and other Act to them approches novatrices fell matière of care at domicile , the EI - médicaments and the Benefit - services afin of garantir that foreign Canadians disposent of the meilleur system of health possible . 
honourable senators , we analyzed at the aube of a nouveau century . 
health knowledge and the innovation are them pierres angulaires of health Success streets the world informatisé . 
the speech of the Trône we move series vision of a country which is loan at saisir them opportunities offertes by a world where Act knowledge is synonyme of power . 
streets the village planétaire , our researchers are fell competition with ceux of the world entier , and non not simply with ceux at the échelle locale . 
they are fell competition streets series economy , a market Whalers . 
we savons fort well that confirms has the foreign repercussions importantes Act Act policy self because that we participons at series course at the échelle World , series course where Act vision national is indispensable , where them partnerships jouent a role clé and where the government met fell place series structure yeas better libérer the energy extraordinary of them Canadians to toutes them couches of health society . 
he has fallu yeas confirms travailler actively fell partnership with our universities and our laboratoires , our industries axées Act the savoir , business provinces , our towns , analyzed that our organizations volunteers and our agencies Cultural who Cutbacks a job excellent and extraordinary . 
the government has recognized that all levels Canadians repositories wheel access at the acquisition continues to the savoir and power apply prévaloir of health promise that represents Act revolution numérique . 
we croyons that foreign communities branchées not are not and not arresting perhaps the apanage of ceux yeas who the savoir is synonyme of power . 
thin appartiennent at all levels Canadians . 
our strategy which VI at brancher them Canadians fera of the Canada ' country ' more branché of the world and she share of the principle that the future of our country arranged étroitement infertility at Act creation of series society fair and united streets Act possibility of accéder at the information . 
streets the framework of unabated strategy , the foreign initiatives commentator Rescol , the Program of access originators and the program Ordinateurs yeas the école acclaimed licences at the Canada ' devenir series exodus democracy axée Act the savoir , a place where every them Canadians acclaimed Act possibility of voyager fell first class Act the autoroute of the information . 
convaincus that royal Room of class is the drives of our democracy axée Act the savoir , we awakened overburdened Act foot Act Stratégie canadienne yeas the equality of them chances , who has helped the foreign hundreds of thousands of Canadians since 1998 and who comprend Act subvention yeas the épargne - studies , health subvention yeas purposes of study and Oceans scholarships to the millennium . 
we awakened overburdened fell place series infrastructure propice at Act research . 
what is why we augmentons our appui at the hook of them advice subventionnaires and we ourselves lançons streets series nouvelle congruent audacieuse , authorized Act creation of them 2 40,000 chaires of excellence fell research of the XXIe century streets them universities Forces . 
the chairman of the University of Toronto , Robert Prichard , has signalé that unabated initiative at she Gotcha équivalait at recruter the staff enseignant of series grande university almost the Government day at the lendemain , a gain net of cerveaux incommensurable . 
commentator the Prime Minister ' has said : 
a place where a environment sain and series good quality of life submariners of pair , a place where our young admits that gagner not is not sideshow series question of share of market , but unsuccessfully series question of value , the service and the attachement at our racines . 
a country which has series Senators morale and whose business citizens are déterminés at create series society World sustainable and a world meilleur enraciné streets the soil rich of the humanisme . 
what are our children who we conduiront là . 
they we conduiront là with their génie and their dreams , with their espoirs and their love , with their talent and their ingéniosité , with their yeux grandfather ouverts Act a world meilleur . 
however , business challenges who faces dressent appeared eux are the taille . 
their responsibilities are énormes . 
honourable senators , what are eux , our children , who repositories conquérir the future . 
the government has commitments a commitment loyalty them bébés and Oceans children of the Canada . 
we ourselves impotent engagés at their permettre of partir of the bon foot streets Act life . 
we ourselves impotent engagés at their offer a abri , the Day nourriture and a environment sain . 
we voulons permettre at them parents of mood the most of time possible with their children during Senators months who suivent their birth . 
we voulons help them parents who repositories too often make the foreign choice difficiles between their responsibilities professionnelles and familiales . 
we voulons allegiances Act foot a regime légal who permettra of ensure the course - perhaps the foreign children fell case of separation or the divorce of them parents . 
we voulons equation davantage of money streets them Budgets of them families Forces fell réduisant them taxes . 
yes , our children acclaimed of them rights . 
they acclaimed the right to espérer . 
they acclaimed the right to rêver . 
they acclaimed the right at the equality streets what magnificent country which is the ours and who represents a symbol of espoir and the promises yeas of them million for persons at the world , the Canada . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , before the make condolences commentaires streets what debate Act the speech of the Trône , I query everything of thanking offer condolences congratulations and condolences meilleurs vows at his Excellency Act Gouverneure générale at the beginning of what nouveau mandate . 
these 407 Canadians litigants a grandfather privilege and series enormous responsibility . 
they servent at eux seuls 30 million for Canadians streets our Parliament . 
Seneca few - unes of them questions who never cessaient of me venir at the spirit fell réfléchissant Act the speech of the Trône and fell réfléchissant Act the Parliament : how apply comporte the ship of the state at them yeux of them 407 parliamentarians Airports who are chargés of the surveiller ? 
is - what that royal practice of health freedom is more damned or more low ? 
the Canada that we laisserons after our séjour at the Parliament arranged he meilleur ? 
fell response at these issues , I ai been amené at Act conclusion that our freedoms at the Canada reposent Act Act basic of series sorte of trinité of institutions fondamentales . 
health later upper instance at the country , health Court Supreme of the Canada , is Act target of attaques corrosives of health share of some cercles . 
certaines of them attaques them more violentes against the judicial are the fact of Members réformistes of the another place . 
streets dapper response at the speech of the Trône , the Opposition of the Party Reform streets the another place at said rejecting : 
... them courts acclaimed of more fell more empiété Act them prérogatives of the Parliament at the standpoint where til can say that he is impossible to interpréter the speech of the Trône before the wheel read gerrymandering of them courts . 
eh well , honourable senators , some auditeurs acclaimed avoided find confirms amusant . 
the other acclaimed can - perhaps trouvé that what guardian series proposal originale or enchanting . 
personally , I cannot ai not trouvé confirms amusant . 
i cannot ai not trouvé more amusant that the Opposition of the Party Reform streets the another place apply mette at bombarder of criticism them courts of various instances yeas them judgments rendus streets their assessment of them measures prises by foreign governments federal , provinciaux or territorial , by report at Act Charter of them rights and freedoms . 
what guardian commentator if them courts étaient fell something sorte responsables of the existence of health Charter canadienne of them rights and freedoms . 
i rappellerais quickly at them Canadians that he has fallu the assentiment of them two Houses of the Parliament and the nine legislatures legislatures Provincial yeas that authorized adoptée Act Act BNA of 1982 . 
he regardless that we , parliamentarians , évaluions Act vision of the government and Oceans programs who fell découlent yeas determine whether composite of these programs placera our courts streets of them situations more difficiles or less pénibles . 
when I ai parcouru the speech of the Trône , nothing streets what last not me has convaincu that the government Partnerships another something at offer that a program vacuum . 
the government seems avoid them criticism political sérieuses fell employant unabated strategy . 
he confie at them courts them tasks pénibles who consistent at interpréter of them laws very générales or too souples . 
the government not has not su make Evidence of suffisamment of leadership , not has not strokes Act vision policy and legislative necessary yeas make fell sorte that the Parliament works of health manner prévue at the origin . 
what who focuses davantage at the independence and at the role of the power judicial these derniers time , what is that some paliers of government seem evil understand the report which should ceased between the power executive and the power judicial . 
transport honourable senators acclaimed suivi very carefully the judgment that has rendu Act Court Supreme streets the affair Marshall . 
what judgment reconnaissait some rights issus of treaties and has entraîné of them consequences very déplorables streets Act province that I represents , the Brunswick - Brunswick . 
during what time , the Prime Minister envisageait Act possibility that royal Court Supreme retienne his judgement streets the affair Marshall enough long yeas permettre at the government ' adopt them regulations nécessaires yeas reduce them niveaux of hostilité . 
even if we tenions all at avoid unabated hostilité , we étions always at them prises with Act question of ingérence policy streets them travaux of the most haut court of the country , who shows clearly how the power executive commence at play of the muscle streets the field judicial and auprès of institutions which Cutbacks part of our form of democracy Parliamentary . 
honourable senators , he is dangerous that a prime minister request at them courts of make their travaux of manner at favoriser the regime fell place . 
health law is Act bill . 
he not tangibly anguishes Act plier anguishes the adapt yeas that she circulation the affair of a party politics who is at the power . 
bye unabated separation less net between the executive and the judicial , he tangibly add Act reaction instinctive of a grandfather number of parliamentarians , mostly at the another place . 
since the time that I am at the Senate , I ai rarely , and I doubt same that what authorized arrivé , heard a Appeal yeas régler of emergency a problem grave of Order policy or Housing fell rose Points at Act provision of exemption of health Charter . 
pourtant , we entendons often them people of the another place say that royal provision of exemption can perhaps utilisée yeas contourner a problem . 
the Parliament doit prendre well Custody when series telle proposal is formulée . 
honourable senators , I considère the Parliament commentator series of them three grandes institutions régissant the fiscal of health freedom at the Canada . 
a review of the number of days of postponement of them various legislatures legislatures and the foreign two Houses is fort révélateur . 
pensons at the retard that the government has overburdened at heed Act rentrée Parliamentary bearer fall . 
health House of them Commons , the institution which is censée incarner Act democracy at the Canada , sits fell average less of 120 days each year . 
some parliamentarians apply demandent why they devraient apply efforcer of Welfare présents here and pensent that what is series pure loss of time to sit at the Parliament because that the government at the power not apply soucie not the moindrement of their notice . 
streets well - Provincial case , even the simples Members of the government apply grab retirés of a committee by example fell guise of châtiment yeas apply perhaps opposés at the power Central . 
these people - là considèrent them rules parliamentarians commentator nothing to more than the foreign barriers at franchir streets Act réalisation of objectives supporters . 
he rereads also ceux who are the notice that the saint of them saints , otherwise said : Block Langevin , has everything fact yeas embrouiller them measures and Oceans decisions who are prises by the government Present streets the framework of the Parliament . 
why the Prime Minister and Oceans ministers of the cabinet not veulent - they not that the Parliament seat ? 
health response is évidente , honourable senators . 
priver the Parliament of dapper ability to And of them measures legislatures and the importantes questions of actualité is Act technical who has been utilisée by the government Present yeas usurper Act prerogative of unabated institution . 
a file , by example , we gives Act Evidence that the Block of the Centre not is not disposé at permettre at the Parliament of apply acquitter of dapper task . 
if the snakes apply arrête at the context entourant the Agreement définitif nisga' has , intervenu between Act Nation nisga' has and health province of British - British , til constate that he has been signed by foreign two parties after wheel been passed by the Assembly legislative of health British - British and accepted by foreign Nisga' as . 
his Honour the Speaker Acting : 
i dois interrupt the Honourable Senator Kinsella and him consigned that royal period of time allouée yeas his speech is écoulée . 
honourable senators , the Authorized to pursue is - she granted ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Kinsella : 
honourable senators , before that the Parliament ait strokes the opportunity to analyser the treaty nisga' has , the minister of them Foreign Indian the Partnerships already signing . 
the obligation to tribute to them comptes at the Parliament irrite much the Prime Minister and his cabinet , who is became his group of reflection private . 
bye the Breast of the cabinet , the Prime Minister not apply contente more of Welfare the Prime Incidence ses pairs . 
health nature hiérarchique of the government apply manifeste also at all levels niveaux . 
the cabinet réprime Act participation policy and the apport of them Members of footnotes - ban , the foreign Members of the Opposition , the foreign committees and the foreign citizens . 
bye the level fondamental , health reddition of comptes at the Parliament by foreign occupants of the Block Langevin is quasi nowhere . 
unabated attack fondamentale lancée against Act responsibility loyalty the Parliament is inquiétante and deserves that the snakes apply request if the speech of the Trône clarifie or non the fact that the government is always responsible loyalty the Parliament . 
streets our form of government , dérivée of celle of Westminster , health responsibility ministérielle is Act pierre angulaire of health practice Parliamentary and , streets what paradigme of government , he is jugé déplacé that the cabinet or the Prime Minister dominent Act function policy of the Parliament without that foreign members of them two Houses not soient véritablement consultés . 
i query make remarquer the impuissance of the government at prévenir the érosion of our system policy fell citant the universitaire Philip Norton who , parlant of the failure to the government at apply driver commentator the exige the principle of health responsibility , wrote that with them years , business instruments of the Parliament apply are émoussés . 
he déclare : 
the government is also became more réticent at divulguer ses informations at Act House . 
[ ... ] énormes powers centralisés ressemblent more at ceux that the snakes associe normally at series dictatorship autocratique that at ceux of a government democratic . 
and that : 
the Parliament is the forum Central yeas discuss the Government utilisation and the Government abus of power policy . 
i query fell ending parler of what third sector at the service of our democracy , what is - at - say gerrymandering of them agencies volunteers and non gouvernementaux . 
i ai been déçu , honourable senators , the constater that the speech of the Trône not faisait aucunement référence at unabated next célébration of the role of them agencies volunteers streets the world . 
til not trouve nil appui innovateur or créatif of them agencies volunteers of health share of the government fell place . 
what is rather the contrary . 
almost toutes them promises that the snakes retrouve streets the speech of the Trône acclaimed trait at series measure quelconque congruent by the government Central . 
puisque them Nations Nations acclaimed déclaré the 2000 2001 Année international of them agencies volunteers , he me seems , honourable senators , that the government aurait avoided make a effort yeas make share of health provision of our country at souligner the importance of them agencies volunteers non gouvernementaux . 
fell conclusion , honourable senators , I query revert at the professor Donald Savoie , whose we awakened spoke at several occasions fell of other occasions , and at his ouvrage released recently Subcommittee on title Governing from Chairperson Centre . 
streets series analysis tranchante of them powers of the Prime Minister and the foreign changes survenus streets them powers at the Canada , the professor Savoie affirme : 
the cabinet , everything commentator the Parliament , is now dépassé . 
transport vrais debates political apply tiennent of more fell more elsewhere , and what is also the case of them decisions who are often prises at the surveillance of them rencontres fédérales Provincial of them premiers ministers , during Senators rencontres officieuses that foreign premiers ministers tiennent during Senators vols of Team Canada , streets the office of the Prime Minister , at the Council private , at the Department of them Finance , streets them agencies internationaux and at the surveillance of sommets internationaux . 
nothing not seems indiquer that royal human who détient toutes them cartes , authorized the Prime Minister , and Oceans agencies centraux who him permettent of concentrer them power policy at the centre , aient the intent of changer whereupon that what authorized . 
the Prime Minister of the Canada is little submitted at the control institutionnel , the Government less at the intérieur of the government , who the empêcherait of agir at dapper guise . 
account tenu of what change the paradigme , til can very well understand Act frustration of them Members , and sometimes same of them senators , who never acclaimed nothing at say at the level of health implementation at the standpoint of them political , and at which til gives the Order of make avancer series initiative of the government , often same without reflection aucune . 
honourable senators , the speech of the Trône is the mechanism who allows at the government Present of make share of dapper way of see the country and the give the ton at the functioning of unabated institution . 
he is clear that foreign bases mêmes of our democracy Parliamentary are menacées and that the snakes has not done grandfather - something yeas réparer them dommages . 
the Honourable MabelM. DeWare : 
honourable senators , we , at the Senate , impotent all very conscients of the importance of the post post activist yeas them Canadians individuellement that yeas the Canada streets his together . 
ceux who fréquentent them colleges , business universities and other établissements of post post fell tirent of them benefits incommensurables . 
confirms inclut them benefits financiers who permettent at them graduates of parvenir at a level of life meilleur yeas eux - mêmes and their families . 
confirms inclut also the other benefits less tangibles but everything also importants fell termes of quality of life , who permettent also at them graduates of play a role essentiel streets the édification of their communities . 
these benefits apply transmettent ensuite at the economy and at Act society Forces Subcommittee Act form , by example , the revenues fiscales more élevées , the economies of costs of them programs Cultural and the cohesion social accrue . 
yet more important to our days is the advantage competitive that series population active instruite gives at the Canada streets the economy World . 
transport businesses of them sectors fell pleine growth of health knowledge and the Day technology of sunrise investiront more probably streets a country where thin arresting embaucher of them graduates well formés émoulus of excellents établissements of post post . 
he is obvious that the government federal recognizes him also the role crucial of the post post at the Canada . 
streets the speech of the Trône , he has recognized " the advantage that represents yeas the Canada series main - Request implementation who is Act more instruite at the world " . 
the government has also affirmé that , at the surveillance of them three dernières years , he has commitments to them measures yeas tirer party to bearer advantage . 
the speech of the Trône has underlined of them measures which visaient at facilitate the épargne - studies yeas them children and has mentioned them scholarships to studies Forces - Government millennium who , according the government , visent at tribute more abordables them studies collégiales and academic . 
he has also mentioned the allégement of the mechanism of remboursement of them debts étudiantes and the improvement of them measures fiscales yeas favoriser the learning continu . 
fell fact , I believe that he has spoke of " strategy " fell évoquant the whole of these measures . 
the government tells now that he account continue to apply appuyer Act unabated strategy fell prenant several initiatives . 
the speech of the Trône faisait Act grande announcement that the government federal : 
... formera of them partnerships with them other governments , business agencies publics and Woodlot analyzed that with them Canadians and Oceans Canadiennes , afin of établir a plan to Action attain fell matière of skills and the learning yeas leXXIe century . 
what plan mettra the accent Act the learning continu , run attaquera at the problem of health low literacy chez them adults and fournira at them citizens the information whose they acclaimed need yeas prendre of them decisions éclairées fell standpoint of parfaire their skills . 
honourable senators , the speech of the Trône has énoncé three composantes of what plan to Action , but I hope sincèrement that the other apply there ajouteront soon . 
more specifically , the government has said that he travaillera with ses partners afin of : 
d permettre at them Canadians to financer more aisément the learning continu ; and 
d fournir of them information at the échelle of the Canada Act them markets of the work , business skills nécessaires and Oceans opportunities for Training at partir of a guichet unique , accessible by Internet , by telephone , or fell human streets toutes them communities of the country . 
honourable senators , toutes these measures arresting perhaps very valables . 
series Action streets these three domaines généraux , who acclaimed been cernés he rereads has close to both years by the committee sénatorial Special Act the post post , run ombudsman assurément and is attendue since long . 
i tiens also at congratulate the government ' apply perhaps engagé at improve the infrastructure of the savoir fell créant of them instituts Airports of research fell health , fell augmentant his soutien at them advice subventionnaires and fell encourageant them universities and Oceans instituts of research of the Canada at intensifier Act collaboration international fell matière of research , even if them details are , I the répète , enough obscurs . 
after everything , health R - D is a another sector clé that has mentioned the committee sénatorial Special of the post post . 
i ai constaté with plaisir that , pursuant at several recommendations of our committee , the government seems reconnaître that he vaut Act peine of attirer of them researchers of Prime plan and the encourage our graduates at pursue their careers at the Canada rather than the run exiler . 
we devons tribute Act situation more attrayante yeas that our graduates of Studies postsecondaires restent at the Canada afin of ensure the advantage competitive that we awakened thanks at our main - Request implementation instruite . 
account tenu of the attention more grande who is granted at the exodus of them cerveaux of the Canada , whose business media parlent much , unabated intervention is particularly opportune . 
streets series study that he has introductory recently , the Conference Board of the Canada has déclaré that the exodus of them cerveaux , who is the most fell more important , threat of vider the bassin of workers qualifiés at the Canada . 
the most , the Prime dirigeant of Nortel , John Roth , has mentioned that dapper company devra quitter the Canada if nothing not is done yeas enrayer Act sortie of capital timeless . 
faisant remarquer that he remains at the Canada only 7p. cent of them cadres supérieurs of Nortel , he aurait déclaré , according the quotidien Ottawa Citizen of the 12 November , what who suit : 
bye whereupon bon wheel a seat Housing at the Canada when Act more grande part of the team of them leaders of health company is part ? 
account tenu of the fact that 22 40,000 employees of Nortel travaillent at the Canada and that , each year , health company commits the quart of them engineers graduates formés at the Canada , til not can prendre confirms at Act lightly . 
even Statistics Canada , that til has critiqué yeas wheel minimisé the importance of the exodus of them cerveaux , has admitted that foreign graduates Airports who faces dirigent at the south of health border are often them meilleurs , business more brilliant . 
even if several causes acclaimed been relevées yeas explain unabated migration tragic , he is clear that the system of post post at the Canada is a factor . 
i remind at them honourable senators that the Ottawa Citizen of the 12 November attribuait also àM. Roth Act remarque suivante : 
health quality of them diplômes fell génie and fell informatique décernés at the Canada is excellente , but I crains that she never declining at cause of the funding inadéquat of the system of education . 
honourable senators , we devons we ask if them measures that foreign Liberals proposent streets the speech of the Trône suffisent , commentator the said : government , yeas établir " series strategy destinée at exploiter the advantage that represents yeas the Canada series main - Request implementation who is Act more instruite at the world " . 
fell fact , series once implementation fell implementation , unabated strategy suffira she at maintain Act quality of our main - Request implementation instruite ? 
i think that he tangibly make much more streets the sector of the post post yeas achieve them results that the government we took promised . 
i aurais préféré that the speech of the Trône we move a little of substance yeas enrober these mots at Act mode who faces veulent rassurants . 
i aurais still better aimé that he rereads authorized question of some sectors of the post post that the government seems wheel completely oubliés , the foreign sectors who , at mon notice , revêtent series importance Capital if we voulons progresser Act the Mifflin Plan the savoir at the aube of the XXIe century and not not accuser a backsliding or , with a little of luck , make simply the Government Act - place . 
streets the optique of them observations faites parM. John Roth , the Nortel , I veux parler more particularly the Government funding for the post post at the Canada . 
the committee whose I fais part has qualifié of extremely prioritaire the assistance that the government federal and Oceans provinces accordent at the post post . 
the committee has also recommended that " the government federal , everything fell continuant at adhere them skills Provincial , renouvelle his ferme commitment streets the sector of the post post " . 
the subamendment - funding for them universities and colleges Airports , attribuable fell part at them cuts visant the Transfert Heritage fell matière of health and the programs Cultural , has entraîné , between other things , series hausse of them fees of tuition , series détérioration of the équipement and the foreign infrastructures physiques analyzed that series incapacité of attirer them members of the corps professoral them more qualifiés streets them établissements postsecondaires of a océan at the another . 
transport fees of tuition élevés risquent notamment of tribute the post post inaccessible at the nombreux students Airports . 
health perspective of obtaining his diploma and the perhaps Robbie criblé of lourdes debts of Studies that foreign scholarships to the millennium not risquent guère of reduce much can , by example , perhaps a élément dissuasif crucial . 
apply he is important to allegiances of them loans and the other forms of assistance at Act provision of them students , he tangibly however limiting them impotent that a étudiant should wheel at emprunter . 
i me méfie of health promise that fact the government streets the speech of the Trône of facilitate the funding for the education permanente . 
apply he entend simply help them students at emprunter davantage of money and at alourdir their debt , I cannot believe not that what authorized Act solution . 
what serait allegiances Act charrue appeared them boeufs . 
however , if the government apply move the accorder davantage of scholarships or the véritables remises of debt , unabated promise me paraîtra more positive . 
transport Canadians uncovered impatients of see at the surveillance of them two prochaines years what that the government has referred the fair at the spirit . 
fell outre , we awakened extremely hurry of see how the government and ses partners feront fell sorte , commentator the introduces the speech of the Trône , that the perfectionnement of them skills suive the pace of the Evolution of the economy . 
i hope sincèrement that confirms not apply limitera not at cerner them professions , business métiers and Oceans jobs streets lesquels til fingertips need to graduates streets them years at venir , quoique confirms authorized series congruent importante . 
unabated initiative should rather reposer Act to them measures concrete visant at help them students at obtain the education and health training nécessaires yeas satisfaire these needs . 
i the répète , business Canadians suivront of close what that the government federal fera at the surveillance of them two prochaines years at bearer regard . 
i believe that foreign Canadians not devraient not wheel at wait two years before that the government tienne them promises that he has faites streets the speech of the Trône regarding the post post . 
i remind at the government that he tangibly agir blocks now streets what sector critique . 
i remind also at them senators that what report of the committee is already vieux of two years and that he guardian urgent of the déposer . 
the senator Graham has been very prodigue fell promises Act the future of the education at the Canada . 
he is very eloquent . 
he rereads has two years , what are the foreign paroles of carking that foreign students , business éducateurs and Oceans researchers we specialist servies Act the état of the education at the Canada . 
what not guardian not a tableau pleasant . 
he is therefore time that the government considère the education commentator series priority streets his program yeas the nouveau century . 
i dois really congratulate the senator Graham yeas them observations that he has présentées today today . 
honourable senators , I pourrais parler longuement of the education post and the Government education permanente car what are là of them questions who me tiennent at heart . 
i hope fell wheel the opportunity streets a proche future . 
i vais however mood at them other aspects of the speech of the Trône that I veux aborder , what is at say Act Custody and the right to visit to them children . 
he convient , everything of thanking , the make a certain historic . 
i ai strokes the honour to perhaps member of the committee Joint Special Act Act Custody and the right to visit to them children , formé fell October 1997 . 
the government Partnerships created what committee afin of remplir series promise that he Partnerships introductory yeas apply ensure that the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology , whose I étais patron at the époque , examinerait them nouvelles lines directrices fédérales Act Act pension alimentaire yeas children . 
transport 23 members of the committee , representative five parties , laughed therefore 3.26 the year suivante at hear from them hundreds of witnesses and at And them graves questions regarding Casual families touchées by series separation or a divorce . 
fell December 1998 , the committee has tabled his report entitled : " Pour the love of them children " . 
the report comprenait series attest series of recommendations visant at recentrer Act the child the system adversatif who existait yeas Act Custody and the right to visit to them children . 
health later importante recommendation proposait of them changes recognizing that royal mother and the father devaient all sides continue at play a role important streets Act life of their children . 
these recommendations étaient centrées Act the concept of Custody partagée , what who signifie Act prise of decisions conjointe and the entente between them parents understandings at the sharing the Government time and at them arrangements résidentiels . 
thanks at Act Custody partagée , the father and health mother demeurent actively investis streets them care at give at them children . 
fell May 1999 , health minister fédérale of health Howe has released Act response detailed the Government government at the report of the committee . 
i ai been heureuse of learn that the government apply apprêtait at appuyer them principales recommendations of the committee demandant series approach at the right to health family rather centrée Act the child streets them case of separation and the divorce . 
we étions all well fébriles , and even exaltés , the day where we awakened learned that royal Minister allait allegiances fell application our recommendations . 
... with ses partners provinciaux and territorial , he remembered emploiera at réformer the right to health family and at strengthen them regimes of soutien at them families afin that , streets of them situations of separation or the divorce , priority authorized donnée at them needs and at them meilleurs interests of them children . 
unabated Seneca shows clearly that the government recognizes that royal Custody of children and the access at ceux - ci revêtent series importance Capital yeas well - Provincial Canadians and that foreign concerns relatives at the system Present not disparaîtront not . 
i hope that the government has the intent of accélérer dapper implementation fell implementation planifiée of them recommendations Act the sharing the Day task parentale énoncées streets the report " Pour the love of them children " . 
after everything , the speech of the Trône dresse usually them priorities of the government yeas Act session whose he sert of standpoint of departure . 
account tenu of rumeurs récentes voulant that the foreign election fédérales générales uncovered déclenchées of here 18 months , well before 2002 , business Canadians palatable apply wait at the foreign progress more rapides . 
i hope that what not are not to faux espoirs , but , étant rose the piètre performance of the government fell what who pertains them questions of Custody and the access , I ai well afraid that they not soient déçus . 
néanmoins , til can always espérer . 
between - time , the foreign hundreds of children not uncovered not entendus and ressentiront Act douleur of ménages brisés . 
honourable senators , I me réjouis of wheel strokes the opportunity to intervene Act these two questions of the récent speech of the Trône , who fell derogation , well heard , much of other . 
the other honourable acclaimed already fort well underlined some aspects of the speech and the other levels imiteront without doubt . 
fell guise of conclusion , I voudrais express the espoir that the government écoutera and that he tiendra account the foreign concerns well réelles and the foreign suggestions raisonnables of condolences colleagues siégeant of what side - ci of the enceinte . 
bill to Bill Act Act Assent Royal 
second reading - Adjourned of the debate 
perhaps honourable senators , I dois explain the thanking what that the what Bill of Bill not is not . 
contrairement at them bruits who acclaimed circulé recently streets them media and elsewhere , he not introduces not the abolition of health ceremony of health Assent Royal telle that we Act connaissons and who is observée here since 1867 . 
the bill to Bill , outre that he préserve Act ceremony traditionnelle , pourvoit at series procedure différente , at savoir series statement écrite , similar at celle who is suivie at the Kingdom - Kingdom and streets of other countries of the Commonwealth . 
health tenue of health ceremony traditionnelle serait obligatoire streets the case of the Prime bill to Bill of appropriation presented lors of series session and at the least series once by year civile . 
transport honourable senators who étaient présents at the époque apply souviendront that a bill to Bill at somewhat close identique at the bill to Bill S - 7 , the bill to Bill S - 19 , Partnerships been presented at the Senate by the senator Murray , Robbie Leader of the government , fell July 1988 . 
the senator Doody Partnerships opened the debate at the phase of health second reading few days later later . 
the debate Partnerships repris fell September but Partnerships been the courte durée car them priorities of health majority at the Senate étaient Robbie elsewhere and not étaient not Foreign at Act dissolution of the Parliament the 1er October . 
transport arguments avancés by the senator Doody he rereads has 11 years are still valables today today and series grande part of condolences arguments are inspirés of them siens . 
the last effort fell what sense has been done at the Senate at the surveillance of health dernière session before the perhaps , him also , victim of health prorogation . 
condolences remarques uncovered therefore similaires at celles that I avais faites at the époque . 
maintain Act ceremony of health Assent Royal telle that we Act connaissons and autoriser series statement écrite commentator alternative is a topic who has been soulevé at the Senate at the nombreuses occasions . 
fell 1983 , the senator Frith has presented series inquiry regarding the opportunité of prévoir of them procedures of replacement yeas Act statement of health Assent Royal yeas them bills of Bill No. 
bye Act subsequently of series recommendation introductory fell March 1985 by the committee Special Act Act reform of health House of them Commons , the committee McGrath , understandings at the adoption of series nouvelle procedure yeas Act Assent Royal , the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure , chaired by the senator Molgat , has recommended the foreign changes allant streets the same sense . 
series Reading attentive of the debate Act the report presented by the senator Molgat indique a appui General yeas the idea , but a désaccord understandings at Act manner of health allegiances fell application . 
til has trouvé series solution fell présentant the bill to Bill S - 19 mentioned earlier earlier , a bill to Bill who is death at the Paper fell reason for health prorogation less of three months later later . 
the bill to Bill S - 7 , commentator the has done the bill to Bill S - 19 , reprend them principles of what report . 
the article 5 of health Act to interpretation dispose that royal Assent Royal intervient at Act date of entrée fell vigueur of series bill , at Act condition that aucune aucune another date not authorized précisée . 
well that royal ceremony of health Assent Royal commentator telle not authorized décrite streets nil text of Bill , the ouvrage of Beauchesne fell gives a descriptif . 
the Clerk Deputy of the Senate is chargé of his organization matérielle . 
the Canada is the odyssey country at wheel conservé unabated ceremony official who nécessite Act presence of the souverain or the Government Governor General or the their representative . 
the report McGrath observe that " the Canada continues to make Appeal at series practice abandonnée by the Parliament britannique fell 1967 . 
fell fact , nil another country of the Commonwealth not the has conservée . " 
bye the Kingdom - Kingdom , health Assent Royal has requis Act presence of the monarque until fell 1541 , when business Lords commissaires acclaimed been chargés of represent the souverain . 
commentator we the savons all , the Parliament apply compose of three entities , health reine , the Senate and health House of them Commons , chacune étant indispensable at Act promulgation of a bill to Bill No. 
our ceremony of health Assent Royal rassemble these entities yeas Act dernière phase of the process sometimes term who précède the adoption of a bill to Bill No. 
well that royal reine not refuses not Act Assent , he tangibly everything of same health ask . 
a commentateur has written that royal Assent Royal is always series formality necessary , but nothing to more than series formality . 
i crains , everything commentator of other , that what who should perhaps a événement important not authorized became series ceremony of routine who never suscite that series low curiosité chez ceux who faces trouvent at fell perhaps witnesses by hasard . 
too often , the Governor General not can perhaps présent , and he is difficult and gênant of find a Governor General Acting at court préavis . 
too often , the Acting doit wait au - delà of the hour convenue , fell reason for deliberations incidental of the Senate . 
transport Members présents are usually less nombreux that foreign dignitaires , mostly if health Assent is prévue after the adjournment of health House . 
series Assent Royal donnée later a Thursday afternoon - afternoon signifie that little of senators uncovered présents . 
he règne a climate of indifference , rather than the respect , loyalty series ceremony who , well that she authorized fell grande part series formality , is néanmoins essential , and who we remind the Evolution of the regime Parliamentary at the surveillance of them centuries . 
some soutiennent that royal Assent Royal is archaïque and should everything simply perhaps éliminée . 
i cannot me engagerai not streets what debate today today , except yeas say that , streets Act measure where Act Assent Royal is exigée , traitons - Status commentator she the deserves fell procédant at Act ceremony with respect fell reason for what that she signifie , rather than the Day considérer commentator series discontinuance inopportune of them travaux parliamentarians . 
no serait - he not préférable of reduce the number of them ceremonies traditionnelles at the surveillance of series session ? 
fell prévoyant series procedure différente , the Parliament approuverait , fell fact , the importance of health ceremony traditionnelle that represents Act Assent Royal fell fell faisant series opportunity spéciale , well planifiée and at laquelle assisteraient several persons , rather than series obligation whose health répétition dilue Act signification . 
the Opposition referred what Bill of Bill viendra of ceux who craignent that what not authorized that the commencement of health end of the cérémonial tel that we the connaissons today today . 
the bill to Bill S - 7 tient pourtant account the these fears . 
the another procedure who is Proposed BNA at permettre series Assent Royal non traditionnelle at the opportunity , when he is difficult yeas them intéressés of apply hear Act a moment who convient at all , and analyzed at ensure that he rereads ait more than series poignée of parliamentarians who there assistent . 
what problem deviendra still more aigu when Act House , streets the framework of them rénovations of health Cité Parliamentary , déménagera streets the Block of the West , and arranged suivie by the Senate when she retournera streets the Block of the Centre . 
the afternoon moi , he remembered notional là of series reason suffisante yeas And carefully what Bill of Bill No. 
honourable senators , I ai commitments soin of not not introduce a argument term and détaillé fell favour of the bill to Bill S - 7 , étant of opinion that these considérations of Order General suffiraient at susciter the interest . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Cools , the debate is adjourned . ) 
transport communaut francophones and acadiennes hors Quebec 
health détérioration of them services fell French - Interpellation - Adjourned of the debate 
the Honourable Jean - Maurice Simard , rose rose notice the Wednesday 3 November 1999 : 
honourable senators , tel that heard between them two leaderships fell unabated House , and I hope that all levels senators uncovered of agreement , I cède Act parole at mon colleague , the senator Jean - Claude Rivest , yeas lire mon speech . 
mon speech could excéder the time alloué of ten minutes . 
the Honourable Jean - Claude Rivest : 
honourable senators , I voudrais of thanking say everything the plaisir that I ai of me associer at what speech , the genus way a little inhabituelle , streets the framework of health procedure of unabated House . 
commentator the Honourable Senator Simard complements of the indiquer , he me has asked to give Reading - Status communication that he voulait make at the Senate at the opportunity to the tabling of a report extremely consistant . 
i invite the elsewhere the whole of them honourable senators at fell prendre knowledge . 
what is really series reflection very approfondie and very documentée of health share of the senator Simard Act Act condition of them communaut francophones and acadiennes at the Canada . 
his Honour the chairman : 
honourable senators , health leave is - she granted ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Rivest : 
honourable senators , I me adresse at you today today yeas you entretenir of a enjeu who revêt énormément of importance yeas moi and yeas the country . 
i veux you parler of series question who me tient at heart since always , series question of them more fondamentales streets laquelle I ai invested series grande share of mon Action policy : the development and the épanouissement of them communaut francophones and acadiennes of the Canada . 
bye the term of series reflection personnelle of several months , accompagnée of recherches and the consultations sérieuses and approfondies , I you affirme that condolences composition understandings at them perspectives of future of these communaut are devenues if grandes that I ose you parler of series emergency national . 
when I you parle of emergency , when I dis that she is the envergure national , I me fonde non only Act the outcome of our research , but I puise also streets what bagage of connaissances and the experiences that the snakes accumule fell more of trente years of life Public . 
i me fie at bearer instinct that we développons all yeas réussir at accomplir , at the meilleur of our opportunities , what who is at the fond " our métier " . 
and foremost , streets mon perhaps , me said that if we cannot agissons not everyone of subsequently , with blunt Act conviction and the energy whose what Parliament , whose what country , are capables , he arranged soon too later . 
we aurons , by refusal of agir , by indifference , streets the confort of them paradigmes of our tours of ivoire political , trahi Act promise of a country which aurait avoided perhaps if grandfather , run he Partnerships only strokes the courage to the perhaps . 
because that if , a day , devaient disparaître these communaut francophones and acadiennes , who acclaimed contributed at forger series identity canadienne reconnue and respectée everywhere streets the world , what arranged fell grande part because that foreign leaders of their countries their auront tourné the dos . 
no is - what not the ultimate paradoxe ? 
we craignons of parler chez we to what who suscite the admiration , the respect and even the envy of blunt Act planet . 
we awakened afraid of remind at them Canadians that the pacte fédératif who has seen naître their countries is a pacte of series tolerance without precedent , between two Peoples voués at the principle of their equality mutuelle . 
bye the aube of the 2000 2000 , we préférons céder appeared these dinosaures idéologues who voudraient we ramener at series ère less noble where the Canada ' nine provinces Act ten guardian engagé résolument Act Act voie of the anglicisation of dapper society and the all ses members , francophones , aboriginal or nouvellement arrivés . 
series policy which we took mené everything right at what queM. Andr Laurendeau , the Day Comission Royal Canadian inquiry Act the bilingualism and the biculturalisme , has appelé , he rereads has the confirms more of three decades , " justice worse crisis of our history " , celle of the Canada . 
fell somme , if the snakes not parle not to health crisis , what is that she never existe not . 
if the snakes not admet not that royal situation of them communaut francophones and acadiennes of the Canada has atteint a standpoint critique , til not sentira not the need to make whereupon that what authorized yeas there remédier . 
if the snakes not done nothing , til not rereads not apply make reprocher of wheel fact something something . 
and foremost ira yeas the better streets the meilleur of them mondes ... commentator streets a conte of fées . 
but , honourable senators , til not apply arrête not là . 
health consigne is that if we ourselves taisons , everything the world doit apply taire . 
what who wants say that when business leaders of these communaut osent élever Act Senators and dénoncer them abus whose they are victims , til them enjoint of apply taire . 
pardon ! 
til commence of thanking by feindre of ignorer their existence . 
but series once the mauvais moment of them appuis timides past , series once the interest of them media estompé , til remind vite these fauteurs of disorders francophones at the Order , fell their faisant understand that foreign things iront much better if the snakes not brasse not too Act chaloupe . 
til prend them francophones minoritaires fell otages of the power . 
what government federal who should perhaps their ultimate défenseur , what government auquel incombe Act responsibility BNA , légale and morale of make adhere them rights of these minorities , run fell prend at them victims rather than at them guilty . 
nay only refuses he ' agir , but the power federal Provincial frappe là where they are the most vulnerable . 
til coupe their funding . 
and Oceans leaders francophones , always fiers , but the most fell more affamés , admits vite what that they acclaimed at make apply they veulent sortir of unabated quarantaine . 
commentator til said : they rentrent streets the rang , they deviennent submitted . 
til their explique that foreign things arresting very well , and much better , run make " fell coulisses " , that they avanceront more vite commentator confirms . 
transport more récalcitrants are écartés , til divise yeas régner . 
i know that he rereads fell has Incidence you - and assurément streets the another House - which apply offusqueront of reassess propos . 
you you empresserez of énumérer them programs gouvernementaux at the appui of them communaut of Official Languages , and Oceans milllions of $ who faces there rattachent . 
you we parlerez of them success of unabated francophonie , the Government Année of health Francophonie proclamée by what government , the Government Sommet of the Acadie at Moncton , the foreign Games of health Francophonie prévus fell the 2000 2001 , here same , streets Act region of health Capital national . 
til apply vantera of wheel célébré the tenth anniversary of the amendment at Act Act Act them languages Languages , who donnait at the government federal series responsibility accrue loyalty these minorities . 
i applaudirai and I you dirai : " Bravo ! " 
Évidemment that what are the belles and bonnes initiatives . 
but I refuserai of rentrer chez moi , imbu of health satisfaction of the duty accompli , commentator of other streets what Parliament are tentés of the make . 
because our exodus duty rest still at make , because that the Government pain and the foreign games , he rereads fell fingertips always yeas apaiser Act populace . 
but nil government not rereads never apply glorifier of manifestations of what kind , when , streets them tranchées , the foreign francophones of series bravoure implacable continuent of lutter against the foreign forces who cherchent at them anéantir . 
you pouvez we make toutes them more belles fêtes of the world , confirms not réussira never at masquer Act truth of a government which refuses to appuyer these francophones , Robbie that what is dapper responsibility BNA of the make . 
even at the level scolaire , business struggles not are not yet finies . 
you not entendrez not to congratulations to ma share when I takers them governments provinciaux apply inspirer of the désengagement of the federal loyalty them minorities yeas apply livrer at the foreign délestages of responsibilities who éliminent or menacent them acquis of them francophones . 
you not pourrez never changer Act triste reality that , more of trente years after the adoption of health Act Act them languages Languages , the equality of them chances , the equality of them Peoples , réelle or perçue , is loin of Welfare réalisée . 
you not pourrez never we make forget that , more of trente years after that royal Commission Laurendeau - Dunton ait recommended the instauration of the bilingualism cc yeas them governments of the Brunswick - Brunswick , the Government Ontario and the Government Manitoba , series Gotcha of these provinces has accepted the Government make . 
health later grosse , health later puissante , health province which abrite Act half of all levels francophones of the outside of the Quebec refuses still the reconnaître them rights of health minorité franco - ontarienne streets Act Constitution . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Rivest : 
understandings at the Manitoba , he fingertips fallu Act Court Supreme yeas him make understand that she gouvernait since almost a century streets the illégalité totale , without compter them incidents disgracieux of 1984 , where Act hargne of some politicians provinciaux apply déchaînait against foreign Francos - Manitobains . 
we devrions rougir of shame at penser that at the moment where I you parle , series Franco - Ontarienne of the name of Gisèle Lalonde , with series petite team , sillonne unabated immense province fell auto , yeas gagner of them appuis at Act cause of the enchâssement of them rights of them francophones of the Ontario streets Act Constitution . 
the Department Patrimoine Heritage him has rose the money yeas the make , me direz - you ? 
i défie who that what authorized streets what Parliament of accomplir what that Ms Lalonde is fell voie of réussir with a budget of 35 40,000 $ . 
and you voudriez that til apply mette at genoux appeared confirms . 
you voudriez that foreign Franco - Ontarians soient éternellement reconnaissants , when we their donnons of them bouchées of pain yeas make our work ! 
no serait - what not at us to aller livrer the message of health francophonie everywhere at the Canada ? 
the amount of health subvention granted by the Department of the Patrimoine Heritage at the movement Opération Constitution is tellement risible that til serait unsuccessfully of croire that til the has donnée fell souhaitant that he échouerait . 
what guardian evil connaître them people of health trempe of celles and the ceux who acclaimed chosen to porter the flambeau , loyalty and against everything . 
unabated subvention not is - she not , however , tristement symbolique of them coupures of the federal streets the money granted at them communaut of Official Languages ? 
where is past the principle of the équivalence , pourtant 3.26 by Act Court Supreme streets the v. Mahé ? 
how can - til espérer that foreign communaut puissent apply développer when thin not arresting bénéficier of them programs of the state Heritage , autant that fell bénéficie Act majority ? 
pourtant , poursuivant their trajet of adversité , business francophones of the Canada continuent of apply élever , commentator of them cerfs - volants , against the vent , against all levels vents . 
they acclaimed cru what government , when he their has said that they étaient of them citizens égaux , the foreign citizens at share entière , that the Canada guardian also the country of them francophones , that they there specialist fully their place . 
they the acclaimed tellement cru that what is unabated conviction profonde who continues to them porter at the combat today today , streets the espoir that , earlier or later , their leaders apply joindront at eux , fell vrais allies and non fell faux mécènes , yeas finir the implementation that they acclaimed oublié of achever . 
the time is venu yeas we , streets what Parliament , the add toutes our voice , all our efforts , all our afford at ceux and celles who , by Act strength of them poignets , réussissent still and always at défier the history . 
what Inuvialuit refuses to mourir . 
honourable senators , I you asking humblement of lire the report that I ai tabled more earlier today today . 
what is a job sérieux , sincère , without prétention and dénué of partisanerie . 
i you asking for garder the spirit opened fell parcourant these lines , the garder vos yeux and vos coeurs ouverts . 
some passages , commentator some of them propos that I tiens today today , not feront not your bonheur . 
we pouvons however agir . 
we devons agir . 
i you asking for réfléchir Act what passage , at Act page 38 of the report , who faces bed commentator suit : 
he is surprising of constater that , fell dépit of health couverture médiatique , who cherche well more at déclencher and at nourrir Act controversy that at rapporter them bonnes nouvelles , the opinion Public canadienne , commentator the constate series analysis of the professor Stacy Churchill , is demeurée heavily fell favour of them political Act them languages Languages at the surveillance of them 25 at 1:30 dernières years . 
his analysis the has also conduit at Act conclusion that foreign administrations Change acclaimed lamentablement échoué streets their tentatives fell standpoint of inform them Canadians to bearer appui . 
what is the secret the better gardé at the country . 
that is - what that confirms we said ? 
bye mon notice , confirms we said non only that foreign Canadians to language anglaise acceptent that foreign francophones aient their place Incidence eux , with their institutions and their services publics , but that royal Gotcha presence of these communaut minoritaires at the Breast of their society fact also part of their own identity canadienne . 
Être Quebecer yeas eux signifie , between other , accept that autour of us , the other Canadians choisiront of vivre streets the genus or the another of them languages Languages . 
confirms signifie also that foreign Canadians admits Act difference between the bilingualism individuel and health duality linguistic . 
human not asking at quiconque of learn and the parler them two languages Languages , quoique we puissions supposer that streets a world perfect , what serait évidemment the ideal . 
i you asking , honourable senators , the relever what challenge which apply pose at the state Heritage . 
health conjoncture is today today favorable at series recognition puissante , résolue and irréversible of health francophonie canadienne . 
the time is venu of mood at them mood , the déclarer and the déclencher series volonté national fell favour of the equality of them francophones and the foreign anglophones of the Canada . 
ex - Minister of them Finance - ma province , I serais the last at suggérer that we retournions at them folles Estimates which we acclaimed rose them deficits of a past still too récent . 
but the government is présentement fell Position financière idéale yeas recommencer at invest streets Act construction of the network institutionnel who donnera at these communaut series chance attainment of réussir . 
car what is series implementation at finir that we awakened laissée at the abandonment . 
understandings at moi , I believe that bearer investment streets our richesse francophone fell is a who never aurait never owed perhaps reduced or freiné . 
the most fell more , all levels Canadians constatent Act rentabilité of the bilingualism and the Government federalism . 
they acclaimed seen the their yeux , at Moncton , recently , how series reputation of opening and the jurisdiction linguistic their ouvrait of them doors autrefois fermées Act the world , particularly Act the Europe , unabated superpuissance economic fell devenir . 
they acclaimed heard the Speaker of health France vanter a Canada tolérant , rather than the inciter them francophones of the Quebec at Act separation - what who guardian until - là the odyssey souvenir that several of between eux specialist of a tel visitor . 
the most fell more of Canadians to health majority , also , run inquiètent of the érosion culturelle and linguistic of their compatriotes minoritaires . 
they admits that a Canada without ses communaut francophones not is more the country whose they are if fiers . 
til has seen , streets Act cause of the hospital Montfort , by example , the foreign alliances inédites and inespérées between Act community franco - ontarienne and the foreign members of health community anglophone of unabated province and the elsewhere at the Canada . 
that attendons - we yeas understand that the Inuvialuit we took dépassés ? 
that attendent them governments of what country and the foreign provinces yeas understand that foreign nouvelles generations not veulent more of guerres linguistic destructives , that he is time to mood at another something , the bâtir with confidence Act them bases that we awakened jetées he rereads has trente years ? 
rappelons - we only why , at the surveillance of them tumultueuses years 60 , health Commission Laurendeau - Dunton parlait of health crisis Act more grave of our history . 
what is that they specialist including that the country guardian at the bord of the éclatement , that he fallait poser of them gestes radicaux , and vite , if the snakes espérait see the Canada survivre at them déchirements who the menaçaient . 
the most fell more of these people of the Quebec who faces étaient always identifiés commentator Canadians - Français allaient now apply say Quebecers of thanking , sinon exclusively . 
transport Quebecers not accepteraient more of Welfare minorisés at the Canada , they deviendraient majoritaires chez eux . 
the Day same way , they concédaient that they not auraient never their pleine place streets what Canada where their compatriotes specialist subi all levels affronts , là where the education fell French guardian still illégale . 
has til oublié what who we took menés at Act situation that we vivons today today ? 
transport premiers ministers provinciaux admits - they that unabated intolérance historic of their propres governments is series of them sources of the séparatisme québécois ? 
the government ' Ottawa comprend - he that au - delà of toutes them savantes stratégies , the foreign plans A , B or C against these méchants séparatistes , he particulars can - perhaps commencer by the commencement ? 
combien of sovereignists rêvent of a country everything simply because that til not has never voulu their give gerrymandering who their revient , because that til has tué their rêve Prime at coups of political assimilatrices ? 
honourable senators , I cannot you demanderai not to revert fell footnotes . 
however , I you asking for you souvenir , the alimenter your wisdom and your reflection of perspectives historiques . 
the report that I you soumets contains 42 recommendations , whose 10 recommendations principales who forment the framework of the Mifflin Plan redressement that we you proposons yeas them communaut francophones and acadiennes of the Canada . 
health task seems enormous , the challenge insurmontable , but he is at Act measure of them people of what country . 
he is at your measure , at our measure . 
what is a bill to society emballant , positif and généreux . 
but without the courage to the make , everything confirms , everything what that we représentons , everything what beau décor who we abrite not wants nothing say . 
when business murs of the Parliament are devenus ceux of the silence , the Government silence Act the fate of them more vulnerable , we awakened lost our reason for perhaps . 
i ai confidence that you me écouterez . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Kinsella , the debate is adjourned . ) 
( the Senate apply ajourne at the Wednesday 17 November 1999 , at 1:30 1:30 30 . ) 
debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
2e Session , Session Session , 
volume 138 , Issue 8 
the Wednesday 17 November 1999 
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker 
table of them Contents 
STATEMENTS STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
health Nova Scotia Nova 
transport price internationaux and nationaux remportés by foreign residents of Lunenburg 
health reform of the Senate 
the Agriculture 
the hemp industriel - Comments barriers at them exports toward them States - U.S. 
the year international of them persons seniors 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
the union Monetary European 
depository of the report of the committee of them Affairs Foreign 
transport and Communications 
depository of the Prime report of the committee 
society of developing of the cap - breton 
depository of the Prime report of the committee Special 
the Comité of selection 
Presented of the fifth report 
health freedom religieuse fell China fell report with them pactes internationaux of them Nations Nations 
notice of inquiry 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
transport resources Natural 
health closure of health Corporation - development of the Cape - Cape - Ex announcement of the injection of funds ? Position Position of the government 
health Corporation - development of the Cape - Cape - Ex bill to Bill Convey dissolution - Comments consequences yeas them miners and the staff 
health defence national 
health closure of health BFC Cornwallis - Possibility récupération of them vitraux commémoratifs of health chapelleSt. George' Maclean 
the replacement of them helicopters Sea King - Possibility possibility of the credit - bail 
transport Nations Nations 
health proposal of the Party Reform of reassess Act participation of the Canada - Possibility Position of the government 
health health 
the power to réglementer them products entrant streets them usines of équarrissage - Possibility Position of the government 
orders OF THE 
transport travaux of the Senate 
the Comité of selection 
passage of the fifth report 
health Act Act the casier judicial 
bill to Bill Amend - Second Reading 
referred at the committee 
visitors of Gallery 
routine legal and Constitutional 
notice of Motion demandant the Authorized to utiliser them documents and testimony recueillis lors of the study of the bill to Bill precedent at them purposes of the study of the bill to Bill Present 
visitors of Gallery 
routine Foreign 
Authorized at the committee of Extend Act date of Tabled of his report final sur la Modified of the mandate of the Organization of the Traité of the Atlantic North 
transport travaux of the Senate 
the Estimates for them Estimates for 1999 - 2000 
Authorized donnée at the committee of them finances nationales of And the Estimates Supplementary ( A ) 
the Estimates for them Estimates for 1999 - 2000 
referred to the credit 25a of the Council private at the committee Joint Standing of them languages Languages 
the Estimates for them Estimates for 1999 - 2000 
referred to the credit 10a of the Council private at the committee Joint Standing of health Library of the parlement 
the Code criminal Position Act Act the system Correctional and health implementation fell freedom Subcommittee condition 
bill to Bill Amend - Second Reading - Adjourned of the debate 
the Comité of selection 
Final Report on third report ? Retrait of the article 
routine legal and Constitutional 
motion demandant the Authorized to utiliser them documents and testimony recueillis lors of the examination of the bill to Bill precedent yeas the study of the bill to Bill Present - Continued of the debate 
decision to the Speaker 
health Conférence Act the equality and health participation of them women at Act life Public 
inquiry 
the Evolution and health mondialisation 
inquiry 
health situation of them aboriginal and their future 
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
Authorized at the committee of sit fell same time that the Senate 
transport and Communications 
Authorized at the committee of sit fell same time that the Senate 
the Bureau of salubrité of the Environment yeas them children 
passage of health motion of établissement 
the SENATE 
the Wednesday 17 November 1999 
health postponement is ouverte at 1:30 1:30 30 , the Speaker étant at the fauteuil . 
prayers . 
health Nova Scotia Nova 
transport price internationaux and nationaux remportés by foreign residents of Lunenburg 
the Honourable Wilfred P . Moore : 
honourable senators , I interviens today today yeas reconnaître them price internationaux and nationaux that acclaimed reçus recently Act city of Lunenburg fell Nova Scotia Nova and ses citizens . 
the Friday 5 November 1999 , health city of Lunenburg has received the price of the Port of the year - Government American Sail Training Association , the Newport , at the Rhode Island , lors of dapper vingt - seventeenth meeting Annual tenue at Boston . 
transport members of the ASTA viennent of everywhere fell America . 
what price is 3.25 annuellement at Act collectivité who apporte a appui important at the ASTA and recognizes and encourage Act navigation at voile . 
what is Act first once that a Port Heritage remporte bearer honour . 
bye the surveillance of health same meeting , the captain Daniel P . Moreland , patron of the three - mâts Picton Castle , the Lunenburg , has been honoré fell activist that instructeur of navigation at voile of the year by the ASTA . 
the captain Moreland has parcouru the world at bord of the Picton Castle with a crew formé fell majority of novices , when the bateau has quitté the Port of Lunenburg fell November 1997 yeas his odyssée historic of 18 months . 
Koppel . - Villiers has rose generously Act half of his award of 10 40,000 Expenditures at Act bibliothèque of Lunenburg yeas the help at pursue his excellent work . 
we félicitons and saluons Act city of Lunenburg , the mayor Laurence Mawhinney and Oceans advisors , analyzed that ses charpentiers of ship , ses forgerons of Shipping , yeas ses traceurs - patronniers of voiles and ses residents very hospitaliers . 
we félicitons the captain Daniel P . Moreland and Marq of Villiers yeas their companies and Oceans price that they acclaimed obtenus . 
health reform of the Senate 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
honourable senators , health week dernière , the government John Hamm , the Day Nova Scotia Nova , has commitments Act measure who faces imposait . 
Robbie that we approchons of health season of them Fêtes of 1999 , the assemblée legislative of unabated province has commitments series initiative very importante yeas protect Act security of the public fell adoptant series Position ferme at the hook of them conducteurs fell état of ébriété . 
fell Nova Scotia Nova , these conducteurs are responsables of close to 40p. cent of all levels Late Act them Imposition . 
the government Hamm has employé of nouvelles measures which , he the hope , submariners décourager them people of driver with the foreign facultés affaiblies , what who should diminuer the number of tragedies insensées and protect Act security of them people of health Nova Scotia Nova . 
the 1er December , series nouvelle measure legislative fera mood of two at three years Act durée of health suspension of the permits of a conducteur recognized coupable of series second offence yeas conduct fell état of ébriété . 
series third offence entraînera series suspension of series durée minimale of ten years and series fourth offence apply traduira by series suspension at life of the permits . 
health nouvelle measure legislative permettra also Act suspension administrative and immediate of the permits during series period of 24 hours streets the case of them conducteurs whose the rate of alcoolémie apply situe between 0,05 and 0,08 . 
what government has done Evidence of leadership fell adoptant of them measures which resserrent them laws and who are more sévères at the place to them persons who conduisent fell état of ébriété . 
almost toutes them provinces acclaimed now adopted a program of suspension similar applicable at them conducteurs fell état of ébriété , and bon number of between thin acclaimed succeeded at reduce the way substantielle the number of accident . 
fell quality of legislators fédéraux , we pouvons tirer much of lessons of the experience of our counterparts provinciaux who acclaimed manifestement learned them uns of them other . 
the Senate is constamment fell butte at the foreign attaques and dépeint by the nombreuses persons commentator étant series institution which , according Act majority of them Canadians , is inutile . 
Chairperson Continuing Scandal of Canada' Maclean Senate , streets lequel he déclare that the Senate tel that he existe today today not présente aucune value réelle . 
honourable senators , réagissons fell montrant àM. Hoy and at the rest of the Canada at breaching standpoint the work that we accomplissons here is important . 
i believe streets Act reform of the Senate , but the foreign books and the foreign sections of the kind whose I viens of parler not Cutbacks that attiser them calls fell favour of the abolition of the Senate . 
he is time that we assumions a leadership . 
suivons the example rose by foreign governments provinciaux commentator the government Hamm and montrons at all levels Canadians at breaching standpoint the institution whose we cynicism part is précieuse . 
the Agriculture 
the hemp industriel - Comments barriers at them exports toward them States - U.S. 
the Honourable Lorna Milne : 
honourable senators , I vais make the standpoint at the topic of series question that I ai abordée here there there has few weeks . 
bye unabated époque , a conflict opposait Act Kenex Limited , the Pain Court fell Ontario , at them customs and at the Agency of lutte antidrogue of them States - U.S. . 
i am heureuse of consigned at the Senate that the problem has almost been entièrement résolu . 
Robbie that he remains yet few points at régler , he rereads has series week , series livraison of seeds of hemp fell provenance of the Canada has franchi without encombre them customs américaines . 
the Agency of lutte antidrogue and Oceans customs américaines acclaimed consenti at not not saisir of other chargements of hemp expédiés toward them States - U.S. by Kenex . 
i tiens yeas the instant at congratulate the Department of them Foreign Foreign and the Government Commerce international yeas the assistance that he has apportée at Kenex fell standpoint of régler unabated affair at the advantage of unabated congruent jeune and dynamic . 
condolences congratulations at Kenex . 
what is series good nouvelle yeas them farmers Airports . 
the year international of them persons seniors 
the Honourable LoisM. Wilson : 
honourable senators , the Année international of them persons seniors décrétée by foreign Nations Nations hook at dapper end but , account tenu of the vieillissement of health population , health reason for perhaps the unabated initiative remains entière at them yeux of them senators . 
he tangibly also accorder series more grande attention at them inégalités fell matière of care of health and the course - perhaps that the snakes observe chez them persons seniors at low income , business persons seniors vivant seules and Oceans vieilles women rose to them problems of health mentale and without domicile fixed . 
health fourth Conférence World Annual of health Federation international impact on vieillissement , who has strokes instead at Montreal fell September 1999 , has émis series statement . 
the document apply inquiète of what that foreign principles that foreign Nations Nations acclaimed adoptés fell 1991 fell favour of them persons seniors not are not yet reconnus or respectés universellement and that royal implementation fell implementation of the Plan international of Action Act the vieillissement adopted at Vienne fell 1982 laisse still at désirer . 
Seneca what that the committee of them rights of the man of them Nations Nations Tisserant fell November 1998 at propos of the bilan of the Canada streets the application of health Convention on them Nations Nations relative at them rights Economic and Cultural : 
... that the Canada détermine a doorstep of poverty cc and mette fell place at all levels niveaux a program of assistance social who garantira series quality of life reasonable yeas all . 
lors of health meeting who faces is tenue at York York , business country tiers - mondistes acclaimed indiqué that only 8,5p. cent of their populations respective vivraient until at 60 years . 
fell Africa , unabated proportion not is that the 3p. cent , tandis that she is de24p. cent yeas the Europe . 
he incombe at ceux who , commentator we , souhaitent the avènement of a world nouveau of examiner of very closely Act situation of these continents of health poverty and celle of them îlots of poverty who existent at the Breast of health population vieillissante of the Canada . 
health issue of health poverty of them persons seniors doit perhaps analysée streets the context of the development , the Government eliminating the Day poverty and the Government exclusion social soulignés at the Sommet Whalers of Copenhague yeas the development Housing , tenu fell 1995 . 
after several years of déclin , our program of assistance outre - sea is the Government less stabilisé , but he mériterait of bénéficier of appropriation complémentaires . 
he mériterait also the coordonner his Action with celle of the program of allègement of the burden of the indebtedness of health majority of them country endettés and with them initiatives visant at promote the Employment and health health yeas them persons seniors . 
transport Nations Nations acclaimed been invitées at organiser streets five years series conference World Act the vieillissement , at the surveillance of laquelle uncovered passés fell magazine them progress accomplis by foreign différents States yeas Act implementation fell implementation of their plan to Action fell favour of them persons seniors . 
i am persuadée that the bill arranged avalisé and that the standpoint that fera Robbie the Canada Act Act situation of ses persons seniors démunies , vulnerable and without abri arranged positif . 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
the union Monetary European 
depository of the report of the committee of them Affairs Foreign 
the Honourable John B . Stewart : 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when étudierons - we what report ? 
the senator Stewart : 
pursuant at the paragraph 97 ( 3 ) the Government Rules , I move that the study of the report authorized inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
transport and Communications 
depository of the Prime report of the committee 
the Honourable Lise Bacon : 
honourable senators , pursuant at the article 104 of the rules of the Senate , I ai the honour to déposer the Prime report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them transport and the foreign Communications , regarding Casual Estimates engagées by the committee at the surveillance of health first session of health trente - sixth législature . 
society of developing of the cap - breton 
depository of the Prime report of the committee Special 
the Honourable John G . Bryden : 
honourable senators , pursuant at the article 104 of the rules of the Senate , I ai the honour to déposer the Prime report of the committee Special of the Senate Act Act Corporation - development of the Cape - Cape , lequel traite of them Estimates engagées by the committee at the surveillance of health first session of health trente - sixth législature . 
( the text of the report consigned at them Journals of the Senate to today today . 
the Comité of selection 
Presented of the fifth report 
the Honourable Léonce Mercier , President of the Comité of selection , présente the report suivant : 
the Wednesday 17 November 1999 
the Comité of selection has the honour to introduce his 
CINQUIÈME REPORT 
pursuant at the article 85 ( 1 ) ( has ) the Government Rules of the Senate , your Comité désigne the Honourable Senator Losier - Cool commentator patron temporaire . 
respectfully submitted , 
the chairman , 
LÉONCE MERCIER 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when étudierons - we what report ? 
the senator Mercier : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate , I move that what report authorized examined more later today today . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
you plaît - he ' adopt Act motion , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Mercier , the study of the report is inscrite at the Order of the day more later what day . ) 
health freedom religieuse fell China fell report with them pactes internationaux of them Nations Nations 
notice of inquiry 
the Honourable LoisM. Wilson : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that , the Wednesday 24 November 1999 , I attirerai the attention of the Senate Act Act freedom religieuse fell China fell report with them pactes internationaux of them Nations Nations . 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
transport resources Natural 
health closure of health Corporation - development of the Cape - Cape - Ex announcement of the injection of funds ? Position Position of the government 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
Monday , the minister of them Ressources Natural , Ralph Goodale , has announced that the government federal injectera 70 million for $ streets Act Corporation - development of the Cape - Cape afin of garder Act society of State fell activité until fell April 2000 . 
he remembered notional of a revirement flavour of health share of a government which has soutenu maintes once that he not there Partnerships not to nouveaux fund fédéraux disponibles yeas improve Act pension of retirement and the allowance of cessation of employment offertes at them miners of health Devco and their families . 
transport employees of health Devco apply are battus durant more of eight months yeas that the government améliore the entente . 
the government Liberal has fourni 111 million for $ at them purposes of health pension of retirement and the Government allowance of cessation of employment , but 340 miners only auront right at them prestations of retirement and 650 at the allowance . 
unabated assistance financière fédérale at Act society houillère yeas series second year - affilée constitue a revirement flagrant . 
how the government explique he that he puisse fournir soudainement of them million for $ that he prétendait not not wheel afin of garder fell activité Act society that he has the intent of fermer ? 
confirms signifie he that the government not has not abandonné the Cape - Cape and that he offrira of them fund suffisants at them miners of health Devco who devaient finishing Act first year - Government nouveau millennium without employment ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I puis affirmer catégoriquement and without crainte of Welfare contredit that the government ' s Canada not has not abandonné the Cape - Cape streets the past and not has not the intent of the make at the future . 
our commitment loyalty the Cape - Cape apply is poursuivi . 
analyzed , everything recently , the government federal , the concert with Act province , has overburdened Act foot a fund Special of developing of 80 million for $ afin of help the economy of the Cape - Cape at traverser unabated period of transition very painful . 
the government ' s Canada continuera of play his role yeas venir fell assistance at them residents of the Cape - Cape . 
fell what who pertains them 70 million for $ , health closure of health Devco fell activist that corporation to state capitalists wheel instead of series manner very graduelle and very coordonnée , at Act end of December 1999 . Je am course that the senator is at the courant of the very détaillé program Covenant at them resources Resources who has been élaboré and presented fell report with what calendar . 
the government Partnerships présumé that , yeas offer what program , he could compter Act certaines revenues provenant of health production of health mine Phalen . 
unabated part of the Mifflin guardian very importante and grandement necessary . 
the senator and the other honourable savent that royal mine has been fermée more earlier than prévu , streets of them circumstances catastrophiques . 
health mine has therefore been fermée immediately , primarily yeas of them reasons of security . 
bye cause of unabated closure immediate , business revenues who him auraient licences of pursue ses activities until au31 December apply are envolées . 
two choice apply offraient at the government . 
the Prime consistait at recueillir of them revenues yeas that he puisse adhere them commitments that he Partnerships commitments loyalty them miners and their families streets the framework of what program . 
i know that the senator not approuverait not series telle solution . 
the elsewhere , the nombreux groups of health Nova Scotia Nova , there including the foreign members of his party , laughed déclaré that unabated solution not guardian not acceptable . 
by conséquent , business fund acclaimed been prévus yeas ensure the withdrawal graduel of the government federal streets the exploitation of them mines . 
analyzed , business people who étaient contraints of modify their mode of life fell function of what plan not verraient not their lives soudainement bouleversée . 
we analyzed convaincus that everyone apply déroulera commentator prévu and that the replacement of them revenues provenant of the extraction of coal is Act solution Act more viable . 
health Corporation - development of the Cape - Cape - Ex bill to Bill Convey dissolution - Comments consequences yeas them miners and the staff 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
honourable senators , the bill to Bill C - 11 , who autorise Act sale of health Devco , derogation a section who VI at supprimer a section of health Act Act Act Corporation - development of the Cape - Cape according lequel the government doit prendre toutes them précautions raisonnables yeas ensure the course - perhaps the foreign workers . 
if what Bill of Bill is passed , the government Liberal paving he everything simply fermer them doors of health society , equation at them miners a payment unique équivalant at least the genus year - activité economic générée by Act Devco , and apply fell laver them mains ? 
streets the case contrary , quelles initiatives fédérales uncovered mises fell implementation yeas create the nouveaux jobs and yeas favoriser series nouvelle growth streets the economy affaiblie of the Cape - Cape ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , the very grandes initiatives are fell voie of exécution , whose certaines that I ai mentionnées briefly . 
fell matière of developing economic , series affectation of 80 million for $ who faces ajoute at them programs existants , what is a effort appréciable . 
the same , the assistance granted at them miners and at Act population of the Cape - Cape is importante . 
the Prime Minister apply is pourtant engagé at bye unabated assistance and til the fact currently . 
frankly , I cannot me fais not to souci yeas the électricien of health Devco who touchera series allowance of licenciement of 80 40,000 or 90 40,000 Expenditures and who décrochera a another employment six months later later . 
what travailleur apply tirera very well - affair . 
i me inquiète however the gerrymandering who , at cause of nombreuses years of work and perhaps - perhaps the genus incapacité partielle , fingertips of the evil at apply replacer streets Act nouvelle economy . 
commentator I the ai said , til revoit unabated allowance and til tente of determine whether the other measures palatable perhaps prises , fell particular afin of help them workers who fell acclaimed the most need . 
the senator Oliver : 
the minister not has not done allusion at Act provision of the bill to Bill C - 11 that visait ma question Supplementary . 
the senator Boudreau : 
except mistake , I me am engagé yesterday at equation bearer notice at the senator Murray . 
i vais fell equation also series copy at the Honourable Senator Oliver . 
health defence national 
health closure of health BFC Cornwallis - Possibility récupération of them vitraux commémoratifs of health chapelleSt. George' Maclean 
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau : 
honourable senators , the Honourable Leader of the government at the Senate apply souviendra that fell 1993 - 1994 , the government federal has fermé Act BFC Cornwallis . 
bye the époque , til has déménagé them vitraux of health chapelleSt. George' Maclean at the outside of health basic . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate may - he we say when the Department of health Défense national account replacer these vitraux streets Act chapelleSt. George' Maclean ? 
transport people who acclaimed payé yeas these vitraux , résidents of the place and anciennes recrues of health basic , veulent that these vitraux soient replacés là where they étaient . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I organize the file whose the senator parle . 
these vitraux acclaimed been enlevés of series chapelle who guardian inutilisée . 
they apply trouvent currently at Halifax , who is Act more grande basic navale at the country and whose health chapelle receives the foreign fidèles all levels days . 
til has decided at a certain moment of them installer streets unabated chapelle yeas that foreign people puissent them see and Oceans admirer more regularly . 
i believe understand that royal chapelle of where they 6,000 is the nouveau ouverte , but the way rather sporadique , series or two once by year . 
til has decided , yeas the instant of the least , that these vitraux devraient stay streets a place where they arresting perhaps vus and admirés by more of people . 
the foreign représentations acclaimed been effectuées recently and til apply penche évidemment Act Act question , but what is là what who has been decided yeas the instant . 
the senator Comeau : 
i ai series question supplementary , honourable senators . 
the Leader of the government has said that royal chapelle of Shannon Park , where them vitraux are now situés , sert more often that royal chapelle of Cornwallis . 
til could perhaps - perhaps compare them figures of fréquentation , commentator confirms apply fact sometimes between Act House of them Commons and the Senate , yeas see if solemn Act chapelle of Shannon is more fréquentée that no the guardian celle of BFC Cornwallis . 
however , what who is much more important that royal fréquentation of health chapelle , what is the fact that foreign persons who acclaimed offert these vitraux habitent streets Act region of Cornwallis and the Digby and that the foreign thousands of recrues who are passées by Cornwallis submariners apply there retrouver at the spring . 
i think that thin petitioners very fières of see them vitraux là where they devraient perhaps historiquement and logiquement . 
i request at the Leader of appuyer unabated initiative . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , health proposal of the Honourable Senator that I me commits at Auditing Act fréquentation of a établissement or the one service religieux me remind the précepte biblique suivant : " Que gerrymandering who never gave never péché , lance Act first pierre " . 
i cannot believe not that I serais very enclin at compter the number of persons assistant at a quelconque service religieux . 
i comprends however the sentiment that the senator complements of express and I cannot manquerai not to fell make share at the minister . 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , I ai moi also series question supplementary . 
i pourrais without doubt jeter the Prime caillou . 
if the minister pouvait savoir where apply trouvent them bancs of health chapelle and apply he pouvait see at what that they there soient réinstallés , health chapelle serait can - perhaps a little more fréquentée . 
the senator Kinsella : 
where are - they ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I pourrais without doubt parler more later at the Honourable Senator and find them bancs . 
the replacement of them helicopters Sea King - Possibility possibility of the credit - bail 
the Honourable GerrySt. Germain : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse also at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
she has trait at series question that I ai posée the 4 November regarding Casual helicopters Sea King . 
i ai mentioned at the nombreuse occasions , everything commentator the senator Forrestall and the other at the Senate , the emergency of régler unabated question . 
i am allé until at say - and I the screwed if we avions a government Conservative , néo - démocrate or Reform - that if nothing not guardian fact and apply he rereads Partnerships a accident , health responsibility fell incomberait directly at the cabinet , at the Prime Minister and at the minister of health Défense national . 
commentator number of other Canadians , I believe that we awakened abandonné our forces Armed yeas what who is the their fournir a équipement course . 
the cancellation of health commande of them 101 - 101 has been series decision policy and I cannot am not certain that they petitioners fell service today today if health commande Partnerships been maintenue . 
however , the Leader of the government has déclaré that I aurais soon series response at ma question of yesterday . 
could - he now me give series response more directe and définitive ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , yeas what who is the Government program of replacement of them helicopters Sea King , fell a sense , I dispel repeat what that I ai already said at the Senate . 
i ai spoke at the minister of health Défense national , who me has said that he remembered notional yeas him to health issue Act more urgente fell matière of équipement . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
what is what that the government tells always . 
the senator Boudreau : 
the minister has obtenu a certain success . 
the government apply is said loan at engager of them fund yeas of them programs importants , commentator by example gerrymandering of them Subcommittee - submarines . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
combien coûtera Act modernization ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
the minister me has said that unabated question is extremely prioritaire yeas him . 
i him ai said , commentator I the observance now at them honourable senators , that I considère unabated question hautement prioritaire . 
i vis at Halifax and he not there has not series city streets our country where them military are referendums fell more upper estimated . 
we apprécions grandement the role that they jouent and Oceans sacrifices that they Cutbacks quotidiennement . 
i vais certainly appuyer autant that I the dispel all levels efforts déployés afin that the acquisition of them appareils of replacement of them Sea King apply circulation the most earlier possible . 
the Germain Germain : 
honourable senators , I cannot doubt absolument not to the intent of the government ' acquérir of them appareils of replacement . 
what is là the aspect clé . 
i parle at title of pilote rose series experience active . 
apply he tangibly ensure 30 hours of maintenance yeas that a apparatus puisse steal series hour , business honourable senators arresting apply conceive the piètre état of the aéronef fell question . 
quiconque connaît a little them helicopters knows at breaching standpoint they are submitted at the importants efforts and contraintes . 
i dis at the Honourable Leader that at mon notice , we cannot awakened of another choice that the louer of them helicopters . 
we devons confier at our military of the equipment adéquat who their permettra of secourir of them people who décident of apply aventurer fell sea at bord of a bateau - at the large of them coasts of health Nova Scotia Nova or elsewhere . 
i urge the Leader at make avancer the file and I him request for nouveau series response at the topic of health location . 
the senator Boudreau : 
i remind at all levels honourable senators that the government has commitments dernièrement of them commitments importants at the hook of the equipment of them forces Armed Forces . 
i ai spoke of them Subcommittee - submarines . 
yeas them Subcommittee - submarines , business impotent engagées are the 750 million for $ . 
the process of replacement of them helicopters of research and rescue Labrador is fell surveillance , and Oceans impotent engagées streets what case are légèrement supérieures at 800 million for $ . 
the government has also engagé 30 million for $ yeas modernize the camp Aldershot , and he has also engagé 300 million for $ at the subheading of them prestations , yeas improve the level of life of them members of our forces Armed streets unabated region . 
i cannot veux not éluder Act question of the Honourable Senator . 
fell fact , I ai fact of them recherches and I ai series response différée that I prévoyais déposer at Act end of health period of them questions . 
i dispel confirm at the Honourable Senator that the snakes not introduces not , yeas the instant , louer of helicopters . 
the Germain Germain : 
honourable senators , he is everything at fact unacceptable of exposer our military at the telles conditions fell reason for the mauvais état of our equipment . 
he tangibly find series solution . 
he me déplaît of duty say confirms , but I cannot arrive not at find the foreign mots yeas describe Act afraid that repositories certainly ressentir them pilots when they repositories make steal a apparatus who has need to 30 hours of maintenance yeas each hour of flight . 
the Honourable Senator can - he penser at series another organization streets the world of the aviation who fonctionnerait streets of telles conditions ? 
the senator Meighen : 
she should fermer ses doors . 
the Germain Germain : 
the senator Meighen gave reason . 
authorized the Bureau of health safety of them transport , authorized the Department of the minister Collenette Act ferait fermer fell reason for the piètre état of ses appareils . 
i urge series once the most the Leader at reparler at the minister yeas that he loses dapper Position . 
the senator Boudreau : 
i thank the Honourable Senator yeas ses commentaires . 
honourable senators , I me répète , but the minister me has rose the EI that dapper first priority guardian the replacement of them helicopters . 
the blunt évidence , he recognizes , commentator all ceux who examinent Act situation , that foreign helicopters repositories perhaps remplacés . 
yeas what who is the Government utilisation of them appareils , I me rassure at the idea that foreign helicopters not recevraient not to mission of flight if them persons responsables not étaient not convaincues that they arresting them remplir . 
understandings at the cost of the maintenance , certaines questions arresting apply poser . 
however , we ourselves occupons of dictatorship and I hope that foreign appareils uncovered remplacés also quickly that confirms can raisonnablement apply make . 
transport Nations Nations 
health proposal of the Party Reform of reassess Act participation of the Canada - Possibility Position of the government 
the Honourable Douglas Roche : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
the Party Reform , who form the Opposition official at Act House of them Commons , has released a document Act Act policy étrangère streets lequel he said that , run he formait the government , the Party Reform réévaluerait Act participation of the Canada at them Nations Nations . 
Étant rose that the ONU is series pierre angulaire of health policy étrangère of the Canada since a half - century , breaching that authorized the party at the power , damned is Act Position of the government opposite at series proposal also surprenante ? 
the government has he the intent of respond fell exprimant clearly his appui at them Nations Nations , or paving he accorder at unabated proposal the attention that she deserves , what is - at - say no not fell heed account ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , at title of Leader of the government at the Senate , I tiens at express the appui solide and inébranlable of our government at the institution that is the Organization of them Nations Nations . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the senator Boudreau : 
he is incredible that a party politics responsible circulation the kind of statement or adopte the kind of position préconisée by the Party Reform . 
transport réformistes not acclaimed - they nothing retenu of the history ? 
he serait préférable of not guère porter of attention at unabated statement , afin of avoid the him conférer series quelconque credibility . 
he is incredible that series telle statement puisse perhaps introductory seriously at our époque . 
health health 
the power to réglementer them products entrant streets them usines of équarrissage - Possibility Position of the government 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
fell July last , he remembered is produced a incident malheureux at the Manitoba . 
the foreign bovins acclaimed been empoisonnés by a herbicide very catalyst . 
they acclaimed been expédiés toward series plant the équarrissage where they acclaimed can - perhaps been mêlés at Act moulée produite at the plant , laquelle has ensuite served at nourrir of them porcs and the foreign chickens . 
fortunately , however , confirms not has not been démontré . 
the body federal , the Agency canadienne of inspection of them foods , prétend that the équarrissage relève of them provinces Robbie that the government dd and the congruent of équarrissage fell cause croient that the équarrissage is the jurisdiction fédérale . 
damned is Act Position of the government at the hook of health responsibility fédérale fell matière of products entrant streets them usines of équarrissage ? 
the same , based quelles data scientific apply basic til yeas nourrir them porcs and Oceans chickens with the foreign bovins récupérés , and who knows quels other restes of toutes sortes , Robbie that til has strokes the example of health illness of health cow folle fell England ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I am well pleased to health issue posée by the senator . 
yeas there respond , I devrais wheel at condolences sides the Leader Deputy , puisque what is him the expert of the sector of the élevage . 
the senator Forrestall : 
i query better there see your colleague the Government Cape - Cape ! 
the senator Boudreau : 
the Honourable Senator raises a standpoint important . 
i cannot organize everything simply not enough the field yeas respond today today . 
however , I vais me inform and I him fournirai series response also quickly that possible . 
orders OF THE 
transport travaux of the Senate 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
i invoque the rules . 
honourable senators , the Opposition asks at the government ' considérer Act possibility of And now the report that complements of déposer the chairman of the Comité of selection . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , we analyzed of agreement and we donnons at the Senate Act leave of And now what report . 
the Comité of selection 
passage of the fifth report 
the Senate proceeded at the study of the fifth report of the Comité of selection ( station of Speaker at title temporaire ) , presented at the Senate Committee 17 November 1999 . 
the Honourable Léonce Mercier : 
honourable senators , I move : Adopted of what report . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I query prononcer few mots at propos of unabated motion of our colleague , the whip of the government , who is a excellent chairman of what committee , a result them meilleurs streets the history of the Senate . 
i query express the plaisir that we awakened ressenti of what side of health House at the announcement of health appointment of our colleague , the senator Losier - Cool , who complements of health province of the Brunswick - Brunswick and who has done series contribution remarkable since dapper appointment at the Senate . 
we analyzed very pleased to appuyer Act motion of the senator Mercier . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , permettez - moi of add a word streets the debate Act what report . 
bye the name of them senators who siègent of what side - ci , I brevity the senator désigné streets the report yeas preoccupation the station of Speaker pro tempore . 
unabated human has rempli with distinction his role of Senator , and I am persuadé that she apply acquittera with Act same distinction of them duties of Speaker pro tempore . 
i brevity also the chairman of the Comité of selection and all levels senators who acclaimed participated at them deliberations and commitments Act parole yeas appuyer the report . 
( Act motion is adoptée , and the report is passed . ) 
health Act Act the casier judicial 
bill to Bill Amend - Second Reading 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Fraser , seconded by the Honourable Senator Gill , Refer at Act second reading of the bill to Bill C - 7 , Act amend Act Act Act the casier judicial and series another act fell consequential . 
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin : 
honourable senators , before the lire the text that I ai préparé , I veux you remind that the bill to Bill C - 7 is fell substance and intégralement the bill to Bill C - 69 , whose we avions began the examination at Act end of health dernière session . 
condolences remarques bearer after - afternoon submariners several once make référence at the former Bill of Bill C - 69 . 
no there voyez not là series tentative of you induire fell mistake , but the projetde bill C - 69 équivaut at the bill to Bill C - 7 intégralement . 
before the débuter mon speech , I tiens at thank the Honourable Senator Fraser yeas wheel supported them interventions that I ai faites fell unabated House analyzed that at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional yeas modify the ancêtre of the bill to Bill C - 7 , authorized the bill to Bill C - 69 , at the level of them powers réglementaires confiés at the Solicitor General . 
i tiens also at souligner that the Solicitor General has accueilli with plaisir them changes that I ai proposées at what Bill of Bill fell June last . 
i him fell am very recognizing . 
these provisions contribuent at facilitate Act réinsertion social of them délinquants . 
the most , health Act canadienne Act them rights of health human interdit blunt discrimination loyalty them persons who acclaimed obtenu series réhabilitation of the Solicitor General of the Canada . 
he is important to mention that royal réhabilitation not efface not the existence of health condamnation and that she can perhaps automatically annulée if health human is ultérieurement condamnée yeas a acte criminal . 
currently Act Act Act the casier judicial introduces them consequences of the octroi of health réhabilitation , commentator Act implementation Subcommittee scellés of the casier judicial of the offender . 
honourable senators , business changes proposées by the government at Act Act Act the casier judicial , by the biais of the bill to Bill C - 7 , visent at augmenter Act security of health population . 
primarily , thin are destinées at prevent them délinquants sexuels of preoccupation of them positions of trust auprès of them children or the other persons vulnerable . 
yeas achieve bearer objective , the bill to Bill C - 7 move the add series provision Supplementary fell what who has trait at the case particular the Government casier judicial of them délinquants sexuels réhabilités . 
the Insignia section 6.3 of health Act Act the casier judicial introduces that the commissioner of health Mounted Royal Canadian the Canada can inclure streets the fichier automatisé of them relevés of condamnations criminelles gérés by Act RCMP , a indicateur or a marqueur who informera the service of police faisant series research at the foreign purposes of filtrage that he existe , relatively at series human , a file scellé or a relevé of series condamnation yeas series offence at uniqueness sexuel prévue at them regulations at the hook of laquelle he wouldn has been octroyé series réhabilitation . 
unabated recommendation has been approuvée at the unanimously by foreign ministers federal and provinciaux of health Howe lors of their meeting of October 1998 , at Regina . 
analyzed , business agencies who offrent of them services at the foreign children and who veulent engager a Volunteer or a employé rémunéré pourront now determine whether the candidate has obtenu series réhabilitation at the hook of series offence sexual . 
unabated vérification not rereads perhaps effectuée that at two conditions : the genus share , if the Employment plaçait the postulant fell situation of autorité or the confidence by report at them children or at the other persons vulnerable ; the another share , if gerrymandering - ci has consenti by wrote at Act vérification . 
the " marqueur " signalera at Act police who fact Act vérification at the foreign purposes of filtrage that dapper request for divulgation of the casier of series human réhabilitée doit perhaps accompagnée of them empreintes digitales of health human fell question . 
if health vérification allows the établir that royal human has already done the objet of series condamnation yeas series offence at uniqueness sexuel , health RCMP or the corps policier fell question who has procédé at Act vérification can ask at the commissioner of health RCMP of equation at the Solicitor General everything file or relevé of condamnation at the hook of the individu . 
the Solicitor General rereads decide to health relevance of divulguer the content of the casier . 
if what last the autorise , health RCMP or the service of police rereads communiquer them information at the body which fell has done Act request . 
by against , the body not rereads utiliser these informations that streets the framework of the examination of health request for employment . 
yeas avoid the foreign abus , the bill to Bill introduces that unabated vérification not rereads perhaps réalisée at series another end that celle of And series request for employment . 
honourable senators , he me fact plaisir of you say that I am fully fell agreed with them objectives and Oceans principles which underlies - tendent the bill to Bill C - 7 . 
he is clear that royal security of our children and the foreign persons vulnerable of our society arranged better protégée by these nouvelles measures . 
by against , I tiens at mention that several associations , commentator Act Corporation Elizabeth Fry , health Criminal Lawyers' Association , laughed émis of them reserves understandings at Act policy Act laquelle apply fonde the bill the Canadian law C - 7 . 
health principale inquiétude of these groups apply fonde Act the fact that what Bill of Bill could compromettre the integrity of the system of réhabilitation and his role streets Act réadaptation and health réintégration of them délinquants . 
they soutiennent , notamment , that the Solicitor General not has not établi of way satisfactorily that royal bill actuelle Act the casier judicial and health réhabilitation not suffit more yeas protect adéquatement Act society of them prédateurs sexuels who acclaimed been réhabilités . 
the most , health Corporation John Howard and health Corporation Elizabeth Fry craignent that fell permettant the access at them dossiers of réhabilitation , til not gives a faux sentiment of security , fell reléguant streets the ombre of other elements clé of health selection of the staff yeas them positions of trust by report at the foreign children or the foreign persons vulnerable . 
honourable senators , lors of them travaux of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional Act the bill to Bill C - 69 , we awakened examined unabated question very carefully . 
fell what sense , I query aborder quickly Act question of balance between them rights of them persons réhabilitées by the Solicitor General of the Canada and ceux of them children or the foreign persons vulnerable . 
even if , at them yeux of some , business provisions of what Bill of Bill seem equation fell cause the principle of réhabilitation social Act lequel richly the functioning of our system of libération conditionnelle and the réhabilitation , what Bill fell arrive however at a certain balance between them rights of health human who has been accusée , condamnée puis libérée and ceux of them children that we devons protect . 
honourable senators , he is obvious that when he remembered notional of agresseurs of children or the persons seniors , series Gotcha offence fell is already series of too . 
transport consequences are graves and we devons make everything what who is fell our power , fell activist that parliamentarians , yeas avoid that the reassess events apply reproduisent . 
when I affirme that the bill to Bill parvient at a certain balance between them rights of them two groups of individus , I cannot essaie not to minimize or the banaliser the problem , but I veux the allegiances fell context . 
when we parlons of mood criminals , the Government treatment of them criminals and the offer to them measures to lutte effective and realistic against what kind of crimes , we devons see them things streets a context comparatif . 
i dispel you affirmer , fell activist that lawyer , that he is always very difficult to parvenir at the perfect balance between them rights of them persons , who acclaimed démontré that thin pouvaient mener series life normale , and the fact of avoid that the system of réhabilitation not devienne a mechanism who masque them offender of them persons who risquent of introduce a danger yeas them children and the other persons vulnerable . 
what is a problem épineux . 
fell what sense , the government federal has convenu , with toutes them other administrations Provincial and judiciaires lors of series conference of them ministers of health Howe , the allegiances fell place a system of repérage of what kind . 
what is the consensus auquel are parvenus all these ministers . 
what is a compromise , what is series proposal , who never paving not at the extrême streets a sense or streets the another , but who is considérée commentator étant équilibrée and réalisable . 
fell response at them concerns legitimate exprimées by some members of the committee and certaines associations who craignent that the bill to Bill not compromette them objectives of réhabilitation of the process of octroi of a pardon , I souligne that the bill to Bill not introduces that series Gotcha exception at them benefits prévus of health réhabilitation . 
he introduces a system of repérage extremely ciblé streets lequel are incluses of them measures to protection of them rights of health human réhabilitée . 
i query now aborder Act question of health regulators - which , authorized said fell passant , has been at the heart of them travaux of the committee of them Affairs legal - relative at the application of them provisions yeas permettre the marquage of the casier judicial . 
commentator you the savez , unabated question me preoccupation at the most haut standpoint . 
currently , the article 8 to the bill to Bill introduces modify the article 9.1 of health Act Act the casier judicial yeas that unabated nouvelle provision Act the marquage of them dossiers of persons réhabilitées subsequently at series comdamnation yeas series offence at uniqueness sexuel authorized appliquée correctement . 
fell vertu of the bill to Bill C - 7 - therefore the bill to Bill that we awakened appeared we , and what guardian also the case of the bill to Bill C - 69 - Government government rereads , by regulation , premièrement , dresser Act list of them offences visées by the term " at uniqueness sexuel " ; deuxièmement , régir the inclusion of the marqueur at the hook of them casiers judiciaires and relevés of condamnation and health vérification of these derniers ; troisièmement , define them termes " children " and " persons vulnerable " ; and quatrièmement , régir them process of consent of the individu visés at the Insignia section 6.3 , the Day vérification of them dossiers or the Day communication of them information that the casier contains at the body which fell fact Act request and specifying streets the regulation them factors that the Solicitor General prend fell considération when he décide of autoriser or non Act divulgation of the content of the file of series human réhabilitée . 
lors of health appearance of the Solicitor General appeared them members of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional , the 14 June last , I ai affirmé that foreign powers réglementaires , reassess that définis by the projetde bill C - 69 , étaient series question of political . 
bye bearer effect , I him ai posé several questions . 
why the process of consent of the individu visé at the Insignia section 6.3 of health vérification of them dossiers or the Day communication of them information that the casier contains at the body which fell fact Act request is - he confié sideshow at the gouverneur fell council ? 
why the bill to Bill not mentionnait - he not that he not apply adressait sideshow that at them individus who specialist been condamnés yeas series offence at uniqueness sexuel ? 
even if all levels speech of the government streets the another House and at the Senate acclaimed always spoke of offence at uniqueness sexuel , the bill to Bill not faisait not référence spécifiquement at the character sexuel of these offences . 
why the bill to Bill not contenait - he not fell Printed series list of them offences at uniqueness sexuel same if the other législations fédérales , commentator Act Act regarding the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques , contiennent a appendice who identifie clearly them offences who are visées by foreign provisions of health law ? 
honourable senators , when I ai commitments Act parole fell June last , lors of the debate fell second reading of the bill deloi C - 69 , I ai affirmé that foreign powers confiés at the gouverneur fell council semblaient very importants . 
lors of the témoignage of the Solicitor General at the committee , I him ai mentioned that the snakes could régler these issues fell them insérant streets the bill to Bill No. 
prenez particulars honourable senators , that since few years , the government Present - and the former government - tente of soustraire of several bills of Bill them définitions legal or the process of functioning of series législation who palatable perhaps contestés or modifiés when they are analyzed by foreign members of the Parliament , business committees permanents of them two Houses or telecommunications groups of interest . 
confirms is , you fell conviendrez , very disturbing car the process of consultation yeas the study of a bill to Bill and the study of series nouvelle regulatory not is not to the everything the same . 
streets the case of health definition of them termes " children " or " persons vulnerable " , business officials of the Department of the Solliciteur General acclaimed responded at our concerns of health way suivante : 
streets the case of " persons vulnerable " , health definition not Partnerships not been incluse streets the bill to Bill car she could changer at the surveillance of them prochaines years . 
fell what sense , he aurait therefore been difficult to define what term streets Act bill Act the casier judicial . 
streets what context , he guardian more avantageux that foreign ministers puissent modify unabated definition by regulation without wheel at introduce a nouveau bill to Bill No. 
despite everything , I ai reminded at the minister and at ses officials that series part of the Code Civil of the Quebec traite abondamment and the way very précise of them persons vulnerable yeas that their rights civilians soient protected . 
streets the case of the term " children " , business officials acclaimed affirmé that unabated definition guardian already incluse streets of other Acts and that he not there Partnerships therefore aucune necessity of the inclure streets the projetde bill C - 69 . 
pourtant , health nouvelle Act Act the system of justice pénale yeas them adolescents that we étudierons at the surveillance of them prochains months contains series definition of the term " children " . 
contrairement at what that acclaimed affirmé the minister and ses officials , I am convaincu that unabated definition not changera not often . 
the most , these mêmes officials acclaimed affirmé yeas justify these two oublis that the Department has suivi Act same approach yeas them changes at them annexes at Act Act Act the system Correctional and health implementation fell freedom Subcommittee condition . 
currently , these annexes contiennent several définitions légales and réglementaires who are modifiées by décret . 
honourable senators , I tiens at souligner that several members of the committee , whose moi - even , laughed fact remarquer at the minister that same if the article 8 to the bill to Bill C - 69 , who has trait at the power réglementaire , mentionnait the fact that foreign offences retenues yeas Act rédaction of health list petitioners at uniqueness sexuel , the bill to Bill not faisait aucunement mention that he remembered adressait sideshow at them individus who specialist been condamnés yeas series offence at uniqueness sexuel . 
bye several gloomy streets the bill to Bill , til not faisait référence that at the term " offence " . 
by conséquent , unabated list aurait avoided inclure series series of offences who never aurait not a uniqueness spécifiquement sexuel , what who aurait augmenté Act scope of them provisions of the bill to Bill C - 69 . 
confirms is too vague and too large . 
transport officials of the Department acclaimed affirmé that unabated list existe already . 
she has been rédigée fell collaboration with them provinces yeas decide to what that he convenait of inclure Act Act list of them offences who doit contenir of them offences of Nature sexual visant particularly the foreign children or the foreign groups vulnerable . 
if she is already rédigée , why not not the wheel incluse streets the bill to Bill ? 
confirms we aurait rose the opportunity to the And immediately . 
fell consequential , health list of offences who arranged at Act basic of the application of unabated nouvelle législation could perhaps much too vague and she dépasserait widely the intent of the législateur . 
i tiens at you remind that the right pénal is fondamental . 
a crime is a crime . 
fell what sense , he seems little approprié of laisser these decisions at the power executive , sideshow at the power executive , rather than at the power législatif . 
the most , til not can renier the principle which wants that toutes our laws soient fell agreed with them provisions of health Charter of them rights and freedoms . 
finally , streets the case of the consent , business officials of the Department acclaimed avoué that they not specialist not jugé necessary to inclure streets Act bill the process of consent of the individu prévu at the article 6.3 of the bill to Bill No. 
streets several other Acts fédérales , what process of consent is présent spécifiquement streets Act bill . 
honourable senators , yeas tenter of rassurer them members of the committee , the minister has justifié the inclusion streets Act bill to all these powers réglementaires yeas of them reasons practices . 
streets his mind , some of these changes arresting prendre énormément of time , mostly apply they devaient make the objet of fell review Parliamentary approfondi . 
streets the case présent , the government risk of apply retrouver streets series situation that the other qualifieraient of urgente and that he not serait not fell measure of aller suffisamment vite if , by example , health definition of them mots " children " or " persons vulnerable " or the process of consent of the individu devaient perhaps modifiés quickly yeas of them reasons practices or légales . 
honourable senators , commentator I the ai said , he is true that he is urgent of veiller at Act protection of them children and the foreign persons vulnerable against foreign prédateurs sexuels . 
by against , confirms not is not series reason yeas abroger them powers of the Parliament and the mood outre them principles of our Charter . 
what is yeas unabated reason that some members of the committee and moi - even not awakened not accepted them explanations of the minister , ses argument and ceux of ses officials . 
opposite at the ampleur of them criticism of them members of the committee - you savez that what is series history who finit well - , the Solicitor General apply is engagé at reassess them provisions of the bill to Bill at the surveillance of the summer . 
he me semblait more urgent of adopt the bill to Bill quickly . 
the 9 September last , business officials of the Department of the Solliciteur General acclaimed presented at them members of the committee of them amendments yeas corriger them flaws of the bill to Bill C - 69 . 
the most , the bill to Bill spécifiera that the system of marquage of them casiers judiciaires not apply adressera that at them individus who acclaimed been condamnés yeas of them offences at uniqueness sexuel . 
yeas better encadrer what process , series list of offences has been ajoutée fell Printed of the bill to Bill No. 
i présume that you comprenez that I parle of the bill to Bill C - 69 . 
unabated dernière rereads perhaps modifiée , by against , by décret . 
ensuite , business définitions d' " children " or the " persons vulnerable " acclaimed been déplacées , the Government text of the regulation at the text of the bill to Bill No. 
honourable senators , permettez - moi of conclude fell affirmant that yet series once , thanks at Act vigilance of them members of your committee of them Affairs legal and Constitutional , the bill to Bill C - 69 and , I the hope well , the bill to Bill C - 7 , laughed been grandement améliorés of way at what that foreign rights of them persons réhabilitées and ceux of them children and the foreign persons vulnerable soient protected équitablement . 
bye Act blunt end of condolences remarques , I supports them principles of what Bill of Bill No. 
he arranged examiné commentator he the tangibly at the committee of them Affairs legal and Constitutional . 
i hope that the government réintroduira them amendments that he Partnerships acceptés yeas amender the bill to Bill C - 69 . 
we serons , yet series once , very vigilants fell your name , honourable senators . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , if nil another senator not widow prendre Act parole , I irai of the prior with Act motion . 
the Honourable Senator Fraser , seconded by the Honourable Senator Gill , moved that the bill to Bill authorized read series second once . 
you plaît - he ' adopt Act motion , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée and the bill to Bill is read series second once . ) 
referred at the committee 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series troisème once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Fraser , the bill to Bill is renvoyé at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional . ) 
[ later earlier ] 
visitors of Gallery 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I you observance Act presence at Act gallery of His Altesse ASSENT Samdech Krom Khun Norodom Sirivudh , Vice - Prime Minister of the Kingdom of the Cambodge . 
bye the name of all levels senators , I you souhaite la welcome at the Senate to the Canada . 
routine legal and Constitutional 
notice of Motion demandant the Authorized to utiliser them documents and testimony recueillis lors of the study of the bill to Bill precedent at them purposes of the study of the bill to Bill Present 
leave rose been granted to revert at them notice of Motion : 
the Honourable Joan Fraser : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 18 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that foreign documents reçus and Oceans testimony entendus by the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional at the surveillance of his study of the bill deloi C - 69 , Act amend Act Act Act the casier judicial and series another act fell consequential , lors of health first session of health trente - sixth législature soient renvoyés at the Comité yeas Act présente study of the bill to Bill C - 7 . 
[ later earlier ] 
visitors of Gallery 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I attire your attention Act Act presence at Act gallery of series delegation of them chefs and other members of the group of them Montagnais of the Lac - Saint - Jean and the Day Côte - North of the Quebec , invités of honour to the Honourable Senator Gill . 
the Day share of all levels senators , I you souhaite la welcome at the Senate . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
routine Foreign 
Authorized at the committee of Extend Act date of Tabled of his report final sur la Modified of the mandate of the Organization of the Traité of the Atlantic North 
leave rose been granted to revert at them notice of Motion : 
the Honourable John B . Stewart , pursuant at the notice of the 16 November 1999 , moved : 
that , by derogation at the Order adopted by the Senate Committee Thursday 14 October 1999 , the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign , authorized at examiner yeas fell make report them ramifications yeas the Canada : 1 ) . - Status Modified apportée at the mandate of the Organization of the Traité of the Atlantic North ( NATO ) and at the role of the Canada streets the NATO since Act dissolution of the pacte of Varsovie , the Day end of health War Cold and the Government entrée récente streets the NATO of health Hongrie , the Day Poland and the Day Republic tchèque ; and 2 ) . - Government maintien of health peace , mostly Act ability to the Canada ' there participate Subcommittee them auspices of not regardless breaching body international whose the Canada done part , authorized habilité at introduce his report final at the most later the 15 December 1999 ; and 
that the Comité conserve them powers nécessaires at Act diffusion of them results of his study contenus streets his report final , and what until at the 24 December 1999 ; and 
that the Comité authorized authorized , nonobstant them practices habituelles , at déposer his report auprès of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that ledit report authorized réputé wheel been tabled at the Senate . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
transport travaux of the Senate 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I invoque the rules . 
we awakened received he rereads has a instant a notice of Motion to the senator Fraser . 
series motion similaire of the senator Oliver consigned at the Paper . 
til not seems not savoir very well if series motion demandant the Authorized to utiliser of them documents and testimony recueillis by a committee sénatorial Standing at the surveillance of series session antérieure of the Parliament at them purposes of a committee of same name établi at the surveillance of series nouvelle session and chargé of And the same topic is conforme at the Réglement . 
til not seems not very well connaître the rules . 
pouvez - you we fournir of them éclaircissements afin of écarter everything malentendu ? 
his Honour the Speaker : 
i thank the senator Kinsella of consigned unabated affair . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I dirai simply that royal request complements at propos , even if I dois mention that unabated affair has surgi by subsequently of them concerns of the senator Cools . 
i devrais can - perhaps him céder Act parole rather than the try moi - even the résumer Act question . 
i dirai , however , that I conviens with the Opposition Deputy of the Opposition that he serait opportun of ask at His Honour the trancher unabated question . 
the Honourable Anne C . Cools : 
honourable senators , I serais very heureuse of add mon grain of sel at the debate . 
everyone of thanking , I voudrais of them éclaircissements . 
is - what a rappel at the rules ? 
the damned question impotent - we saisis ? 
the senator Hays : 
what is series request introductory at Act Ruling - determine Act recevabilité of health motion , whose notice has been rose by the senator Fraser . 
the senator Cools : 
the senator Kinsella apply interroge he at the topic of health recevabilité of health motion présentée by the senator Fraser ? 
confirms me paraît strange . 
the senator Kinsella : 
nay , the senator Fraser has dûment rose a notice of Motion , whose we comprenons fort well Act seams . 
series motion similar has been présentée by the senator Oliver Act week dernière . 
unabated motion has légitimement suscité of them questions of health share of senators , whose the senator Cools . 
he seems there wheel at the least two schools of journalistic understandings at savoir if , after Act prorogation , business travaux accomplis durant series session by a committee sénatorial Act a topic rose arresting perhaps renvoyés at the nouveau committee . 
bye mon notice , he regardless of clarify Act question . 
the senator Cools : 
honourable senators , I prévoyais apporter some éclaircissements at bearer regard tomorrow , when I participerai at the debate Act Act motion of the senator Fraser , but if them senators ' désirent , I dispel the make now . 
i essaie of determine streets breaching context I réponds at them questions of the senator Kinsella . 
i am prête at aborder unabated question . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , we allons au - appeared of them things . 
everyone what that we awakened , what is a notice of Motion to the senator Fraser . 
he not there has not to debate Act a notice of Motion anguishes same of possibility of invoquer the rules at bearer regard . 
health issue doit perhaps soulevée series once that we analyzed saisis of health motion . 
however , I me plierai at Act volonté of them honourable senators . 
if you voulez that I tranche Act question now , I dispel the make , but I believe that he serait more opportun of wait that we arrivions at bearer section at the Paper . 
the senator Kinsella : 
honourable senators , I ai invoqué the rules regarding the fund - series motion whose the senator Fraser has rose notice . 
series motion similar has been Proposed by the senator Oliver . 
commentator what is at the Speaker that incombe Act lourde responsibility to interpréter our rules , I ai asked to them éclaircissements . 
i ai invoqué the rules yeas ask the foreign éclaircissements at the topic of the rules because that I believe that we fell awakened occasionnellement need . 
i ai commitments Act parole non not yeas débattre the notice of Motion , but unsuccessfully yeas invoquer the rules at the moment opportun , who is now . 
the senator Hays : 
the affair could also perhaps entendue at the moment where Act House arranged saisie of health motion of the senator Oliver . 
yeas ma share , I estimated that today today serait a moment well chosen , mostly that you prévoyez duty you absenter . 
whereupon that he fell authorized , the senator Cools is Act human who has soulevé Act question , and I believe that she should explain what who Act preoccupation . 
the senator Cools : 
i veux well . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I the répète , I believe that we allons too vite fell besogne . 
everyone what that we awakened appeared we , streets the case of the senator Fraser , what is a notice of Motion . 
otherwise said , we cannot impotent not saisis of unabated affair . 
a notice of Motion not saurait make the objet of a rappel at the rules or the one pareil debate . 
til we said simply that Mrs. the senator entend propose something something . 
we pourrons fell débattre when she apply arranged exécutée . 
if tel is the bon plaisir of the Senate , we pouvons commencer blocks now . 
i me fell remets at you at bearer regard . 
honourable senators , I répète that at mon notice , health way Act more ordonnée of make them things serait of traiter of each question according their Order of Presented . 
if the debate Act Act motion of the senator Oliver is adjourned at the name of Mrs. the senator Cools , we fell discuterions Robbie , yeas mood ensuite at Act motion of the senator Fraser . 
however , I me fell remets at you . 
the senator Hays : 
honourable senators , if the Speaker is loan at traiter of what topic of way abstraite now , perhaps - perhaps pourrions - we fell parler today today , when we fell viendrons at Act motion of the senator Oliver . 
i query souligner that royal motion of the senator Oliver who we took well been présentée and who is ajournée at the name of the senator Cools is , fell substance , exactly Act same that the notice of Motion to the senator Fraser . 
serait - he acceptable that we fell discutions when Act motion of the senator Oliver arranged étudiée ? 
if what is acceptable , I suggère that we procédions analyzed . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
the notice of Motion and health motion are semblables puisque they apply appuient Act the same principle . 
they not are however not identiques puisque they traitent of subjects différents . 
the senator Cools : 
honourable senators , we pourrions can - perhaps traiter of health issue complex soulevée streets the case of health motion of the senator Oliver fell proposant a subamendment . 
i me fell remets at the Senate . 
if them senators are the notice that the snakes should tenter of résoudre these issues today today , I am the agreement . 
however , I am the notice that confirms not constitue not really a rappel at the rules , but rather series question of fond . 
if tel is the case , he aurait can - perhaps been préférable of fell traiter Subcommittee Act rubrique of a notice of Motion to the government , what who veterinary at the notice of Motion to the senator Fraser . 
the senator Hays : 
honourable senators , we fell discuterons when we passerons at Act motion of the senator Oliver . 
perhaps - perhaps serait - he préférable of fell parler at what moment yeas perhaps well some that our commentaires soient recevables . 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the Estimates for them Estimates for 1999 - 2000 
Authorized donnée at the committee of them finances nationales of And the Estimates Supplementary ( A ) 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , pursuant at the notice of the 16 November 1999 , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them finances nationales authorized authorized at And , afin of fell make report , business Estimates projetées streets the Estimates Supplementary ( A ) yeas the fiscal apply ending the 31 March 2000 , at the exception of the credit 10a of the Parliament and the Government credit 25a of the Council private . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
the Estimates for them Estimates for 1999 - 2000 
referred to the credit 25a of the Council private at the committee Joint Standing of them languages Languages 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , pursuant at the notice of the 16 November 1999 , moved : 
that the Comité Joint Standing of them languages Languages authorized authorized at And them Estimates projetées at the credit 25a of the Council private content streets the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) yeas the fiscal apply ending the 31 March 2000 ; and 
that a message authorized Message at Act House of them Commons yeas the fell inform . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
the Estimates for them Estimates for 1999 - 2000 
referred to the credit 10a of the Council private at the committee Joint Standing of health Library of the parlement 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , pursuant at the notice of the 16 November 1999 , moved : 
that the Comité Joint Standing of health Library of the Parliament authorized authorized at And them Estimates projetées at the credit 10a of the Parliament content streets the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) yeas the fiscal apply ending the 31 March 2000 ; and 
that a message authorized Message at Act House of them Commons yeas the fell inform . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
the Code criminal Position Act Act the system Correctional and health implementation fell freedom Subcommittee condition 
bill to Bill Amend - Second Reading - Adjourned of the debate 
perhaps honourable senators , I prends Act parole yeas propose that the bill to Bill C - 247 authorized read series second once and yeas lancer the debate Act what Bill of Bill No. 
bye the hour actuelle , business authors of meurtres multiples not arresting perhaps condamnés at the foreign peines additional , not serait - what that the genus journée or the genus hour yeas the second , the third or even the eleventh murder violent that they commettent . 
the bill to Bill C - 247 remet fell question Act teachings according laquelle them authors of meurtres multiples devraient perhaps admissibles at series libération conditionnelle after wheel purgé of 10 at 25 years of their peine of emprisonnement at perpétuité , breaching that authorized the number of meurtres that they acclaimed commis . 
the bill to Bill of Albina Guarnieri supprimera unabated garantie and donnera at them judges Act possibility of impose the foreign peines proportionnelles at them crimes commis . 
they auront Robbie Act souplesse necessary yeas add series journée or series year or until at 25 years of more at Act peine imposée . 
transport seuls meurtriers who feront opposite at unabated possibility uncovered ceux condamnés yeas of them meurtres multiples . 
the bill to Bill C - 247 guardian the C - 251 at the surveillance of health dernière session . 
the Senate has received the bill to Bill C - 251 the 8 June 1999 durant them derniers days of health session . 
fell consequential , the bill to Bill C - 251 has expiré at the Paper . 
Le19 October , at Act House of them Commons , Albina Guarnieri has presented his bill to Bill C - 247 who guardian fell fact the former Bill of Bill C - 251 . 
the bill to Bill C - 247 has been read fell first Reading at the Senate Committee 2 November . 
honourable senators , during four years them Communes acclaimed been saisies of what Bill of Bill Subcommittee four numéros différents , authorized the C - 274 , the C - 321 fell 1996 , the C - 251 fell 1997 and maintenantle C - 247 . 
confirms shows well the importance of the opinion of health House of them Commons yeas the cabinet and the minister responsible . 
the bill to Bill C - 247 is a bill to Bill of initiative Parliamentary rédigé , defended and parrainé at Act House of them Commons by Albina Guarnieri , health députée libérale of Mississauga - east , nearly of Toronto . 
what Bill of Bill répond at series question social importante and pressante , health condition of the system of justice pénale at the Canada . 
Albina Guarnieri me has asked to parrainer his bill to Bill here and the Government defend at the Senate . 
i Act tiens fell upper estimated . 
despite the nombreux barriers overburdened délibérément fell travers of dapper road , she has done avancer what Bill of Bill No. 
all levels Canadians him repositories much . 
i the supports streets ses efforts , mostly streets Act task difficult who BNA at encaisser them coups brutaux who are portés at the intérieur of his own caucus , a field of them relations Resources auquel til should seriously réfléchir . 
honourable senators , the 18 August 1997 , at Surrey , fell British - British , I ai attended fell company of Albina Guarnieri at the audience , fell vertu of the article 745 , the Government détenu Clifford Olson . 
nil arrangement not Partnerships been commitments by the prosecutor General or the court yeas permettre at the foreign Members of suivre unabated audience . 
transport Members Liberals at Act House of them Commons , Dan McTeague and Paul Steckle étaient also présents , the same that John Nunziata , a former MP Liberal today today independent , and several members of the Party Reform . 
Christie Blatchford has very well décrit unabated audience . 
streets his article entitled : " Clifford Olson' Maclean macabre circus' " , paru the 19 August 1997 streets the Toronto Sun , she said : 
the senator Liberal Anne Cools guardian tellement choquée that she guardian almost incohérente , disant between ses dents that the " cirque macabre " auquel til guardian fell train of assister at the court guardian tellement malveillant that she capitalists absolument make something something yeas apply remonter , otherwise she never could not the supporter more long . 
honourable senators , the 1er December 1998 , streets his témoignage appeared the committee Standing of health justice and the foreign rights of health human of health House of them Commons at propos of the bill to Bill C - 251 , today today ' C - 247 , Albina Guarnieri has décrit the audience fell vertu of the article 745 , présidée by the judge Richard Low , the Day Court Supreme of health British - British , fell donnant a aperçu of the détenu Olson . 
she has said : 
yeas moi , the moment the most alarmant streets the procès Olson apply is produced when Olson has read at upper Senators series letter of his lawyer him conseillant of avouer of a odyssey coup all levels meurtres that he Partnerships commis . 
analyzed , indiquait the lawyer , Olson could fully profiter of the system of peines concurrentes . 
Olson has said that his lawyer him Partnerships conseillé of fully profiter of the system of peines concurrentes . 
Albina Guarnieri Turcot : 
Olson has nargué the court fell their disant : " Ils not arresting nothing make . 
they not arresting that me give series peine concurrente " . 
simply yeas you give series petite idea of them other councils émanant of the member estimé of the barreau representative Olson , Olson has quoted series letter of his lawyer who Tisserant : 
prepare a plan who consistera of thanking at make fell sorte that you êtes completely protégé of them agissements of health share of policiers boy - scouts too zélés . 
the Imposition of peines concurrentes is avantageuse yeas them authors méchants of meurtres multiples at the Prime and at the second degree . 
Albina Guarnieri we took invités stares at examiner unabated brûlante question of political Public , health determination of health peine at the hook of criminals , and more particularly the foreign authors cruels , obstinés , incorrigibles and méchants of meurtres multiples at the Prime and at the second degree . 
he remembered notional of health determination of health peine yeas of them mood really mauvais . 
the " evil " is a word rarely utilisé because that his employment exige series definition of the " well " and the Day source of the " well " . 
the most , these termes , " well " and " evil " , imposent a debate moral , and a debate Act Act teachings of a perhaps transcendant , series déité , God commentator source of everyone what who is well . 
based Act place Public of our days , the élaboration of health policy Public and the debate Act these issues are dénués of convictions morales , what who gives what that the aucuns til appelé Act " place Public blunt nue " . 
much of leaders political actuels acclaimed tâché of séparer Act policy of health morale and the séparer Act charge Public of them convictions personnelles , fell disant the make at the name of health neutralité morale . 
the debate public and political at the Parliament , based Act place Public , fell the absence of principles and the convictions morales , is a debate creux and raté . 
the debate Act Act place Public and at the Parliament exige absolument that foreign participants fassent intervene their convictions morales and éthiques streets the debate , and what debate doit inclure of them justifications morales . 
honourable senators , these derniers time , much acclaimed refused to admettre the existence of health méchanceté humaine and that she has little of explanations and the théories . 
transport very rare explanations of health méchanceté who acclaimed been élaborées are the Order théologique . 
gold , business explanations théologiques are écartées of our days at the name of health neutralité morale . 
however , ceux who travaillent streets them services of detention , streets them services of police , streets the sector of health poursuite and the Government right pénal , and streets them services Cultural - Request same that fell policy and fell relations political - savent that royal méchanceté humaine existe . 
she existe really . 
they savent also that royal méchanceté humaine fera of the evil at quiconque apply approach too of she . 
the evil has yeas nature and caractéristique of porter atteinte at the course , the him nuire and the Government affaiblir . 
Chairperson Hope for Healing Human Evil . 
bye propos of the evil , who effraie with reason Act plupart of them people , the Dr Peck wrote at Act page 42 : 
the fact that we cannot awakened not to definition generally acceptée of the evil témoigne of the enormous mystery of the topic . 
i believe however that instinctivement , we awakened all series certaine compréhension of dapper nature . 
what savant psychiatre we informe that he not existe not to definition generally acceptée of the evil , and we parle of the enormous mystery of health méchanceté humaine and health compréhension déficitaire that we fell awakened . 
the Dr. Peck wrote still , at Act page 46 : 
that he suffise of admettre that , well that we cannot disposions not yet to a bloc of connaissances scientific Act the evil that he vaille Act peine of honorer of the term " psychologie " , business experts of the behaviour acclaimed jeté of them bases who rendent possible the development of series telle psychologie . 
health découverte of the inconscient by Freud and health teachings of the ombre chez Jung are toutes two fondamentales . 
comprenant our carences streets Act knowledge of the evil , he has supported them efforts of the Dr. Eric Fromm yeas the And . 
the Dr. Peck has added , at Act page 47 : 
however , according ma own experience , business êtres humans who faces livrent at the evil are very nombreux and paraissent usually very ordinaires at them yeux of a observer non averti . 
transport honourable senators apply rappellent that bon number of commentateurs specialist signalé that Paul Bernardo and dapper wife , Karla Homolka , semblaient very normaux and well ordinaires . 
honourable senators , business Clifford Olson and Karla Homolka not are not malades , anguishes mentalement anguishes physiquement . 
they are everything simply méchants . 
all conviendront that he tangibly perhaps méchant yeas enlever Act life of blood - froid , intentionnellement , délibérément , and the way répétée . 
he tangibly perhaps méchant yeas assassiner brutalement , délibérément and the blood - froid several êtres humans , spécialement of them children vulnerable and without defence , afin of satisfaire of them impulsions sexuelles débridées , the foreign perversions sexuelles and the obtain series gratification sexual . 
a tel evil résiste at them traitements or at them remèdes . 
fell outre , health teachings actuelle of illness mentale not réussit not at explain the evil and at the enrayer , car these Offenders not are not malades . 
the word " illness " signifie evil at the aise . 
loin of them tribute evil at the aise , their behaviour not them gêne aucunement . 
the détenu Olson is everything at fact at the aise with dapper condition . 
he signe ses letters " Clifford Robert Olson , TUEUR EN SÉRIE of 11 children " . 
i ai received series of ses letters that he Partnerships signée of unabated way . 
the 23 April 1996 , at the Senate , I ai soulevé Act question of privilege , at them termes of the paragraph 43 ( 1 ) the Government Rules , at propos of unabated letter . 
the Speaker of the Senate has jugé that he not there Partnerships not atteinte at the privilege at first standpoint . 
the détenu Olson not is not patient , he is méchant . 
he semblerait that foreign ministers and their services respectifs not grab not to inconvénient at what that the Parliament authorized exclu of the process of élaboration of health policy relative at unabated question cruciale . 
confirms me has paru of autant more clear when the examination of condolences two bills of Bill , regarding health détenueKarla Homolka and Oceans agreements contestables Act them chefs of accusation , has been interrompu sommairement and that foreign textes acclaimed been retirés of the Paper . 
fell 1997 , I ai repris unabated initiative streets the bill to Bill S - 16 , Act regarding series certaine Karla Homolka , and là still , health Ruling fell has ordonné the withdrawal . 
streets the second case , fell 1996 , at the topic of the bill to Bill S - 3 , Act amend the Code criminal ( agreed Act the Opposition of accusation ) , the study of mon bill to Bill has been interrompue without that the committee ait strokes suffisamment of time , at mon notice , yeas apply fell imprégner , without that a debate ait been tenu , and without that ait been heard the moindre witness . 
transport seuls witnesses reçus by the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional yeas the bill to Bill S - 3 , fell sus of ma own human , laughed been them representatives of the Department of health Howe , Rand Yvan Roy etM. Fred Bobiasz , lawyer attaché at Act 110 of health policy and the Day Modified of the right fell matière pénale . 
these witnesses acclaimed essentially asked at the committee of rejeter the initiative . 
condolences opposants not acclaimed voulu anguishes of a debate anguishes of a review . 
they auraient avoided modify the bill to Bill or even rejeter ma measure Parliamentary after a review approfondi and a debate vigoureux . 
honourable senators , lors of the audience demandée by Olson fell vertu of the article 745 and who has strokes instead at Surrey , fell British - British , I ai learned that what mêmeM. Yvan Roy , the Government Department of health Howe , guardian Act place , at Act provision of them media . 
Christie Blatchford , that I ai already citée , has noticed Act presence of these officials at Surrey . 
she fell parle fell these termes : 
... them officials of health Howe étaient là yeas give the foreign information sur bearer section controversé . 
she identifie these officials commentator étant Irène Arsenault , gestionnaire , Relations with them media , Division of them Affairs translated of the Department of health Howe ; Fraser Simons , director régional of health Commission of them libérations conditionnelles , region of Abbotsford ; and , yeas reprendre the term utilisé by Blatchford , " the cerveau " , Yvan Roy . 
til apply souviendra that foreign persons who acclaimed négocié the plaidoyer of Homolka étaient George Thomson , Subcommittee - prosecutor General of the Ontario , and the subamendment - prosecutor Deputy , Michael Code . 
i prends particulars that , Robbie that the Senate guardian saisi of condolences bills of Bill at the topic of Homolka , what mêmeGeorge Thomson is became Subcommittee - Minister of health Howe at Ottawa , the Government time where Allan Rock fell guardian the minister , devenant of what fact the patron deM. Roy , " the cerveau " . 
honourable senators , at the Canada , til not wants not savoir what that pensent them parliamentarians of the administration of health justice pénale , fell particular fell what who pertains Act determination of health peine and the châtiment . 
the bill to Bill C - 247 is the expression of series opinion Parliamentary non voulue who has been adoptée at Act House of them Commons by a vote majoritaire , even if health minister of health Howe not guardian not to agree . 
the blunt évidence , the opinion of health minister not guardian not celle of health majority of them Members . 
transport observers suivent our travaux yeas savoir if the opinion of health minister of health Howe prévaudra now at the Senate . 
Albina Guarnieri has soulevé series question importante fell right pénal , authorized celle of health determination of health peine and the Government châtiment streets the case of meurtriers dangerous . 
dapper exodus question door Act Act value , health value réelle , the Day life of a perhaps timeless by report at Act sentence imposée at gerrymandering who has enlevé series or several vies . 
comparaissant the 1er December 1998 appeared the committee Standing of health justice and the foreign rights of health human of health House of them commune , Albina Guarnieri has déclaré what who suit : 
transport Canadians not acclaimed never voted yeas them peines concurrentes . 
til not their has never asked if their identity , their identity canadienne , guardian function of a system of determination of health peine more laxiste , between other at the hook of them violeurs and the foreign meurtriers . 
transport peines concurrentes submariners at the encontre of health teachings fondamentale of justice . 
the fact is that foreign Canadians estiment that each murder or agression sexual , each victim , doit perhaps comptabilisé streets the calcul of health peine . 
fell communiquant at the committee budgets results of a poll that she Partnerships she - even ordonné , and who Partnerships been mené by the sondeur POLLARA of the Party Liberal , she has added : 
what is why 90 per - Provincial Canadians are supporters of modify Act bill yeas apply ensure that foreign persons reconnues guilty of several meurtres or agressions sexuelles purgent of them peines consécutives yeas each offence . 
what is what that has indiqué a poll attain effectué by POLLARA the month last . 
what poll has also licences of constater that at peine 8p. cent of them Canadians are favorables at the quo quo . 
til voit clearly our condition Parliamentary and political when the foreign Members representative Act population repositories wheel Points at them sondages rather than at a debate pondéré yeas convince them maîtres political of the opinion Public . 
Albina Guarnieri poursuivait analyzed the explanation of his bill to Bill : 
if , by the biais of the Imposition of peines concurrentes , til not tient nil account the foreign other victims who suivent Act first victim of a violeur or the one meurtrier , what principle is bafoué . 
the objet of mon bill to Bill is the exiger that each offence at Act bill ait series consequential . 
the foreign périodes consécutives of non - admissibilité at Act libération conditionnelle streets the case of meurtres multiples at the Prime and at the second degree and series peine consécutive yeas each acte of agression sexual favoriseraient series justice proportionnelle who correspond davantage at the system fair and balanced that réclament them Canadians . 
honourable senators , the bill to Bill C - 247 not done that add a élément legal of more at what that the government has already sciences at the article 745 of the Code criminal , even tel that amended fell 1996 by the bill to Bill C - 45 , Act amend the Code criminal ( révision judicial of the inadmissibilité at Act libération conditionnelle ) . 
commentator we the savons , the emprisonnement at perpétuité is Act peine minimale yeas them meurtres at the Prime and at the second degree . 
what is the compromise policy that til has done fell 1976 yeas obtain the abolition of health peine Capital . 
unabated peine minimale fut therefore adoptée and assortie of series period fixed of emprisonnement before that the Criminal ait the right to ask series libération conditionnelle . 
streets the case of a murder at the Prime degree , health date of admissibilité at Act libération conditionnelle survenait after 25 years complètes of emprisonnement and , streets the case of a murder at the second degree , after series period of emprisonnement of 10 years . 
honourable senators , he arrive stalkers streets the public that the snakes confonde Act peine of emprisonnement at perpétuité yeas murder at the Prime degree and Oceans 25 years who are solemn purgées before that the offender not authorized admissible at Act libération conditionnelle . 
health peine of emprisonnement at perpétuité dure until at Act end of health life of the offender , commentator them mots the disent . 
health durée of the mandate is celle of health life of the offender . 
health date of expiration of the mandate is celle of the Late of the détenu . 
the Correctional Correctional of the Canada parle of " date of expiration of the mandate " . 
health peine dure blunt Act life . 
he règne series grande confusion at what topic . 
well - Provincial people pensent that the emprisonnement at life has series durée of 25 years . 
the regime of libération conditionnelle is series form of clémence Royal who allows at the détenu of continue at purger dapper peine streets Act collectivité , hors of them murs of series prison . 
series another form of clémence Royal is Act commutation of health peine of death fell peine of emprisonnement at perpétuité . 
what is what who has been prévu streets Act bill yeas give subsequently at the compromise policy of 1976 visant at Abolish Act peine Capital . 
however , what compromise is now menacé by the Evolution of the process of determination of health peine , who compromet Act justice she - even . 
fell 1996 , the bill to Bill C - 45 presented by the government modifiait the article 745 yeas prevent them authors of meurtres multiples of ask a review judicial of their date of admissibilité at Act libération conditionnelle . 
fell faisant confirms , the government has accepted series grande part of the raisonnement of Albina Guarnieri , admettant that foreign authors of meurtres multiples devaient purger series peine more attest before the perhaps admissibles at Act libération conditionnelle . 
honourable senators , I ai already overburdened fell doubt the existence same of the article 745 and proposed that he authorized abrogé at cause of ses flaws évidentes streets the bill to Bill S - 6 , Act amend the Code criminal ( giveaway préalable at Act libération conditionnelle ) , that I ai presented fell 1996 . 
bye the topic of the bill to Bill C - 45 , I ai affirmé that what guardian series Modified at series provision already déficiente . 
durant the debate on the 12 December 1996 , I ai said rejecting : 
honourable senators , fell 1976 , the article 745 of the Code criminal has accordé at them courts of them powers inhabituels their permettant of modify them decisions of courts supérieurs - Request them powers which are normally réservés at them surveillance of Appeal , at them authorities investies of the power to clémence or at the Governor General . 
he has accordé at them courts of them powers inhabituels their permettant of modify them peines déterminées by foreign courts chargés of tribute to them decisions . 
what is something something which is réservé at them surveillance of Appeal and at them authorities investies of the power to clémence . 
the article 745 has strokes the effect very inhabituel of give at them courts the power to accorder Act clémence . 
what authority appartient of plein right at some agencies precise . 
the bill to Bill C - 45 accordera these powers at them judges fell Opposition , what who diminuera them powers of the Parliament of give subsequently at them vows of health population . 
by against , business powers of them judges fell Opposition uncovered augmentés . 
commentator we the savons , according Act Constitution , these powers not acclaimed not been donnés at them judges fell Opposition or at them courts because that what are the foreign powers political . 
what are the foreign powers exercés by foreign representatives of health society . 
he not convient not that the power to clémence of Majesty Majesty authorized exercé by foreign courts or telecommunications judges ; he doit the perhaps by the executive . 
he remembered notional là of a power executive . 
honourable senators , the bill to Bill of Albina Guarnieri Act them peines consécutives richly Act them fondements érigés by the government at the article 745 who autorise them judges at determine Act durée of the time to épreuve . 
streets the case of them authors of meurtres multiples who are foncièrement malins , the bill to Bill C - 247 précise that , when the contrevenant is recognized coupable of other meurtres , business judges arresting prolonger Act period during laquelle the contrevenant is uncalled at Act libération conditionnelle fell him ordonnant of purger a time to épreuve Supplementary who never can however not dépasser 25 years . 
otherwise said , the time to épreuve not can dépasser 50 years . 
the article 745 is series solution policy adoptée fell 1976 yeas adhere a compromise atteint fell 1976 . 
we awakened need to nouvelles solutions and the absence of nouvelles solutions streets them case of psychopathies virulentes not fera that miner Act confidence of health population streets the system and that strengthen them claims to them Canadians who souhaitent the rétablissement of health peine of death . 
the bill to Bill C - 247 is a compromise of the 2000 2000 , who découle of them practices courantes , the foreign flaws of the article 745 and the foreign peines generally imposées at them Offenders foncièrement malins . 
honourable senators , streets them case of psychopathies and the psychopathologies meurtrières , health reality , what is that foreign psychopathes and Oceans sociopathes are more sournois , more rusés and more ingénieux that foreign authorities . 
transport détenus Olson and Homolka we fell donnent of them examples frappants . 
the fact that royal prisonnière Homolka puisse pursue the government appeared them courts illustre at merveille condolences propos . 
honourable senators , he is impérieux of soumettre at the examination of the Parliament our system of justice pénale , ses mechanisms of poursuite , business transactions fell matière pénale , business modalités of determination of health peine and the libération conditionnelle . 
lors of the audience that the détenu Olson has demandée fell vertu of the article 745 , I ai been witness the unabated vast farce that constitue our system of justice . 
the judge who présidait the audience présidait series audience policy . 
unabated audience guardian bel and well policy , she never Partnerships not a uniqueness legal . 
the judge , the jury and foremost the world présent streets unabated Room the savaient . 
we portons grandement préjudice at the independence of them judges and the Government power judicial fell engageant them judges of unabated manner . 
i am certaine that royal majority of them Canadians palatable conceive without sourciller the détenu Olson éviscéré , écartelé , overburdened at the pilori and décapité , car them crimes that he has commis étaient and are still extremely répugnants yeas them êtres humans that we analyzed , but we cannot croyons not at Act peine Capital . 
voilà why we tenons what debate today today . 
the détenu Olson has coûté at our country of them billion to $ with ses nombreuses fantaisies judiciaires , ses poursuites fell justice and ses prétendues batailles legal , there including the audience that he has demandée fell vertu of the article 745 . 
everyone what that dapper notoriété has strokes of bon , what is that she has licences of the garder incarcéré . 
i puis you say that person cannot the libérera . 
Karla Homolka is his équivalent the most naturel . 
honourable senators , I ai fact part of health Commission national of them libérations conditionnelles . 
i ai examined well - Provincial dossiers , the foreign reports of autopsie , the foreign reports of police , the foreign judgments and the foreign statements of Justice at the moment of health determination of health peine . 
i ai interrogé of nombreux détenus and authorized or suspendu well - Provincial libérations conditionnelles . 
i ai learned that he is very rare of find chez them Offenders series pulsion meurtrière who is assortie of instincts prédateurs and who faces manifeste by their taste yeas Act tromperie , but that what is however more fréquent that til the think or that til wants well the admettre . 
health ability to these prédateurs of choose their victims fell exploitant their vulnérabilité is diabolique . 
til parle little streets them two Houses of the Parliament of them case of paraphilie and the psychopathie , the foreign psychopathes , the foreign sociopathes and the foreign disorders of behaviour . 
he tangibly discuss the foreign disorders of pulsions meurtrières érotiques of them Homolka and the foreign Olson and the their consequences Act the system of justice . 
health plupart of between us not pouvons understand their lack of compassion humaine , their tromperies orchestrées , their désirs sexuels déséquilibrés , their agressions , their narcissisme absolu and their extravagances dépravées . 
he tangibly that we étudiions their ability to manipulate with success them people and Oceans systems , notamment them systems démocratiques , and their aptitude at miser Act the incrédulité and health naïveté of them people . 
Three Essays til Chairperson Theory of Sexuality Mail Other Works , Issue 7 , the Dr. Sigmund Freud has written Act them disorders liés at them pulsions sexuelles . 
bye Act page 111 of the edition of 1979 of health maison Penguin , he explique rejecting : 
the absence of health barrière of health pitié apply accompagne of the risk that the link between them instincts cruels and Oceans instincts érogènes analyzed établi streets the boyhood apply révèle impossible at briser at the age adulte . 
we parlons here to déviants sexuels malveillants . 
he remembered notional of punir of them crimes suscités by the foreign pulsions érogènes cruelles , incorrigibles and meurtrières . 
honourable senators , the fiscal of the power souverain streets the châtiment of a crime is a result them aspects essentiels of the administration of health justice . 
til can lire rejecting at Act page 48 : 
the right to punir is therefore a aspect of the right to the souverain of make Act War at ses ennemis ; the right to punir relève of the " right absolu of life and the death that the right romain appelle merum imperium , right fell vertu duquel the prince veille at what that dapper bill authorized respectée fell ordonnant that foreign crimes soient punis ... 
but the châtiment is also a moyen of obtaining justice at the Mifflin activist staff that public , puisque Act strength physico - Politics of the souverain is présente fell a sense streets Act bill ... " 
i dis well " obtain justice " , honourable senators . 
streets our system , til parle of prerogative Royal fell justice . 
health presence of health reine streets Act bill , that révèle series expression commentator Act Queen against Homolka , prouve clearly the right to each citizen of obtaining that royal reine , health source of health justice , their circulation justice . 
she prouve the right to obtain justice of the accusateur , authorized Act reine , and the foreign victims , streets what case - ci them small Leslie Mahaffy and Kristen French , who never étaient that the foreign children . 
the châtiment of them crimes and Oceans peines imposées reposent Act them principles that are Act dissuasion , health neutralisation , health réadaptation and the châtiment . 
the châtiment , at Act difference of health vengeance , is Act consequential fair to the atteinte by the offender at Act peace - Status Queen and at them subjects of health Queen , authorized , streets the case which we occupies , all levels children . 
the châtiment can always perhaps tempéré by Act clémence of health Queen . 
the judge MacKeigan , the Day Court of Appeal of health Nova Scotia Nova , présente a plaidoyer of them more solides fell favour of the Imposition of peines consécutives . 
bye Act page 443 of his judgement of 1975 streets the affair R . Q Muise , he wrote : 
what principle , auquel I adhère fell dépit of the argument very sensé of the lawyer of Muise , découle of ma own conviction who wants that royal bill , fell conférant at the judge the power to condemn series human trouvée coupable of series offence at series peine of emprisonnement , voire fell the obligeant at the make , not should not perhaps interprété commentator étant the obligation introductory at the judge of tribute series peine of emprisonnement yeas series second offence concomitante with Act peine imposée by him or a another Justice yeas series another offence . 
fell infligeant series peine dite concurrente at a offender , til not the punit not to the everything because that he not is not tenu of purger a odyssey day to emprisonnement ; nul not can mood the same day fell prison two once , not more than he not can perhaps pendu two once . 
fell infligeant series peine concurrente , a judge not remplit therefore not his duty , at least the power find , streets the Code or the right pénal fell General , the power to the make . 
i prie all levels honourable senators ' accorder at the bill to Bill C - 247 blunt the attention voulue . 
i veux that the snakes comprenne well that he is here question of tueurs fell series malveillants . 
he not apply notional not to poor young men who , Subcommittee on coup of a accrochage with their parents who them met fell colère , run retrouvent mêlés at a flight at main army . 
he not is not here question of the offender juvénile traditionnel . 
what are the foreign people who décident very froidement of tuer something a and who the Cutbacks of plein gré with préméditation and cruauté . 
he is manifestement time that the system and that the Senate reconnaissent that royal psychopathie existe . 
the Honourable Sheila Finestone : 
honourable senators , I widow poser series question at the topic of unabated Presented rédigée with soin and regarding a bill to Bill very litigieux and difficult . 
he not conviendrait not that I dise streets what context that the senator Cools aurait avoided agir fell solo , she aurait avoided the make , but I tiens solemn at say that what is series question very difficult . 
the senator Cools is series human who connaît very well what field . 
the senator Cools : 
i thank the Honourable Senator of dapper question . 
what is the dilemma that pose the article 745 of the Code criminal of the Canada . 
autant that I sache , health majority of them senators are the foreign abolitionnistes convaincus who never souhaitent absolument not that the snakes réinstaure a day Act peine Capital . 
bye the moment of the adoption of the article 745 , he not Partnerships not been prévu that each meurtrier recognized coupable of murder at the Prime degree apply prévaudrait of unabated provision . 
fell reality , til fell is venu at invoquer unabated provision of way very routinière , and what is là that réside the problem . 
health situation at what topic is very claire . 
streets the projetde bill C - 45 , the government etM. Rock , the minister of health Howe of the époque , laughed apporté of them changes àle section 745 fell standpoint of fixer certaines limits . 
the projetde bill C - 247 mentionne that all these changes acclaimed been insuffisants and that the other measures apply imposent . 
i know that much of senators veulent intervene streets the debate Act the bill to Bill No. 
streets ma conclusion at the debate on second reading , I ai the intent of introduce the historic of them sanctions and the foreign libérations conditionnelles . 
i ferai at the Senate a exposé Act the Evolution of health jurisprudence at the surveillance des20 dernières years and I expliquerai how she has conduit at Act situation actuelle streets Act determination of health peine . 
the Honourable Senator Finestone has frappé fell plein streets the mille . 
the topic exige that the snakes apply fell occupies . 
i hope that certaines questions surgiront at the surveillance of the debate . 
why them judges not imposent - they not to them peines consécutives , commentator they the arresting ? 
the senator Finestone : 
what is a case very inhabituel . 
the senator Cools : 
i dirai that all levels meurtres are inhabituels . 
if the argument of the exception prévalait , we cannot aurions not need to laws against the murder because that foreign meurtres are inhabituels . 
apply they not the étaient not , the espèce humaine not existerait more . 
what is very true . 
i ai series quantité impressionnante of documents Act what kind of individus . 
what who never is not if inhabituel chez them meurtriers , what are them récidivistes . 
health récidive not is not inhabituelle Incidence unabated category of individus that we appelons them meurtriers multiples . 
certaines persons , there including Albina Guarnieri , croient that he is necessary to codifier Act common law . 
fell bref , ces20 dernières years , health jurisprudence has évolué streets a sense who fact that , today today , business judges not are not incités at impose the foreign peines consécutives . 
if til pouvait revert at the époque of 1980 and refaire the procès deM. Olson , perhaps - perhaps dapper sentence serait - she completely différente of dapper condamnation at 11 peines concurrentes of emprisonnement at life and health jurisprudence serait everything another . 
we cannot devons not forget that a perhaps timeless not has that series Gotcha life at vivre . 
what is everything at fact true . 
by example , at them States - U.S. , business courts imposent of them peines of 200 or 300 years . 
confirms not apply fact not at the Canada . 
streets the history of health peine Capital , til trouve of them criminals exécutés several once . 
analyzed , series human pouvait perhaps condamnée at perhaps décapitée yeas a crime , what who guardian generally the fate réservé at them aristocrates . 
she pouvait perhaps condamnée at mourir écartelée , mutilée or brûlée streets of the huile . 
he rereads Partnerships of nombreuses façons of tuer several once Act same human . 
bye Act end of them years 1790 , lorsqueM. J . I. Guillotin has invented Act guillotine , also barbare that confirms puisse we paraître of our days , confirms guardian considéré at the époque commentator a progress fantastique commentator moyen of punir them criminals . 
til considérait at the époque that all levels êtres humans not specialist that series life at losing and that they not devraient mourir that series Gotcha once . 
LorsqueM. Guillotin has presented dapper reform , he has déclaré that a perhaps timeless should mourir only series once and that dapper death capitalists perhaps rapide . 
i hope wheel helped something little mon hon. colleague . 
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin : 
streets his speech , Mrs. the senator Cools has she déclaré queM. Olson not arranged never free ? 
the senator Cools : 
yes , I ai said something something of the kind . 
the senator Nolin : 
if bearer man paving demeurer fell prison yeas the rest of dapper life , could - she we explain why Act primauté of the right paving permettre at bearer individu of demeurer fell prison yeas the restant of dapper life ? 
the senator Cools : 
what not is not series question of primauté of the right . 
Koppel . Olson has been condamné at the emprisonnement at perpétuité and Oceans courts arresting prévoir the réexamen after 15 years of his admissibilité at series libération conditionnelle . 
when I ai déclaré queM. Olson not serait never free , I cannot aurais can - perhaps not owed utiliser the word " never " . 
i aurais owed say that at what stadium - ci , everything the system and toutes them persons travaillant streets the system avecM. Olson savent very well the horreur queM. Olson inspire at blunt Act population . 
i dis at them honourable senators that what sentiment public very fort is a factor contraignant . 
confirms is apparu clearly unabated journée - là at the audience who has strokes instead at Surrey , fell British - British . 
i am here yeas say at them honourable senators , and at the senator Nolin fell particular , that if the public cessait a instant of suivre the file Olson , he remembered could well that bearer man réussisse , the genus way or the genus another , at obtain dapper implementation fell freedom . 
the foreign détenus whose I ai heard say that they tueraient series once sortis of prison , I fell ai seen a grandfather number . 
when I dis that I them ai entendus say these things , I veux say that he guardian fact mention streets them reports of their intention of tuer at their sortie of prison . 
i dis at the Honourable Senator that , run he remembered trouve a day opposite at opposite with some of these individus , commentator confirms me is arrivé streets the system carcéral , he paving wheel afraid . 
when we étudiions the bill to Bill C - 45 , we avions series list of détenus désireux of apply prévaloir of the article 745 of the Code criminal , whose some that I avais vus moi - even when I siégeais at Act Commission national of them libérations conditionnelles . 
fell regardant Act list , I me am reminded fell particular the Government name of a détenu who Partnerships said at which voulait the hear that he sortirait and tuerait at nouveau . 
the senator Nolin : 
soyons clairs . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , health period of time prévue yeas them speech and Oceans questions is terminée . 
the agreement . 
the senator Nolin : 
honourable senators , not we méprenons not . 
if health Commission of them libérations conditionnelles has the power to prendre series decision , what is because that royal bill him confère what authority . 
when I parle of health primauté of the right , what is exactly the confirms that I parle . 
i am choqué of hear that the senator Cools , a former member of health Commission , Partnerships the right to prendre series telle decision fell activist that Commissioner . 
she we said now that she guardian convaincue , at the époque , that some of them individus who comparaissaient appeared she étaient of futurs criminals , but that she never gave nothing fact . 
the senator Cools : 
we awakened commitments to them measures . 
the senator Nolin : 
apply trouvent - they still fell prison ? 
the senator Cools : 
streets what case particular , I ai révoqué the regime of freedom surveillée whose he bénéficiait . 
he is retourné fell prison . 
i parle of nombreuses years later later . 
the senator Nolin : 
you prouvez what that I soutiens . 
health law , at the Canada , gives everything the power at Act commission and at them différents ministers of health Howe of them provinces . 
i cannot think not that the snakes puisse réhabiliter a tel individu . 
what that I dis , what is that foreign laws actuelles arresting régler these problems yeas little that thin soient appliquées correctement , not is - what not ? 
the senator Cools : 
the senator Nolin : 
if confirms not suffit not , Mrs. the senator think she that two or three peines consécutives are series solution ? 
the senator Cools : 
what that I dis at the senator , and he me comprend without doubt very well , what is that four principles repositories régir Act determination of health peine , and not regardless breaching Justice or jury doit heed account the these four principles them uns after them other . 
the one of these principles is Act neutralisation , what is - at - say that he tangibly prevent the offender of commettre a another crime . 
what that I dis at the senator - well that he répugne at the admettre , but I vais make the mon better yeas the persuade , but he tangibly admettre that what arranged difficult - what is that he rereads has something something at corriger . 
honourable senators , I ai Subcommittee them yeux a section of newspaper who me has been 3.25 he rereads has few days . 
he rereads is question of a détenu appelé Adrian Kinkead , whose I cannot avais never heard parler . 
i cannot organize not all levels details and I cannot am not very well placée , car I cannot ai not commitments knowledge of health cause . 
i hook mon information on what odyssey section . 
streets what case - ci , the prosecutor of the Department public has asked at the judge of réserver his judgement until at the adoption of what Bill of Bill No. 
that he remembered agisse of what case - ci or the one another , I dis at the senator Nolin that , streets our evolution policy , we fell impotent rendus at a stadium where the Parliament doit accorder series certaine attention at these issues . 
the senator Nolin : 
the senator we request for us prononcer Act a change the principle at Act second reading . 
the senator Cools : 
he not there has not to change the principle . 
the senator Nolin : 
what is what that the senator request . 
expliquez - you car until here , you not the prostituted not done . 
the senator Cools : 
he not there has not to change . 
the senator Nolin : 
streets Act dernière response that Mrs. the senator has introductory , she has done référence at them four principles . 
i think that he serait bon of make savoir or the remind at at them honourable senators that he rereads has only few decades , we fouettions still them violeurs at the Canada . 
the senator Cools : 
certes , we avions the habitude of them exécuter . 
the senator Nolin : 
why awakened - we changed unabated coutume ? 
bye propos , we cannot appelons more these people - là of them " violeurs " . 
the senator Finestone : 
how individuals appelez - you now ? 
the senator Nolin : 
i believe that til them appelle of them " agresseurs sexuels " . 
we awakened évolué . 
health peine not apply reduced not only at Act punition . 
the senator Cools : 
what is a mauvais example , but ça paving . 
the senator Nolin : 
laissez - moi finir of poser ma question , I you prie . 
i ai shirts the Honourable Senator finir his speech . 
today today , he not apply notional more only to punir . 
health determination of health peine apply fonde Act some principles and Mrs. the senator doit explain at unabated House , before that we cannot we prononcions at the phase of health second reading , breaching principle she widow see changer , why she wants that he authorized changed , and fell whereupon what change affectera he them other principles . 
if she arrive at me convince , I serai happy to the appuyer . 
i cannot believe not that the senator apply authorized really explained until here , the Government less of after what that I ai heard . 
perhaps - perhaps devrions - we Refer the bill to Bill at a committee before the us prononcer at the phase of health second reading , car he rereads has là not evil of principles fell stake . 
the Honourable Senator has done remarquer that he rereads Partnerships consensus yeas not not restore Act peine of death . 
why ? 
he doit well there wheel of them reasons . 
the senator Cools : 
i cannot doubt not to them motifs of the senator . 
i ai said that I aurais aimé the see apply intéresser everything autant at the bill to Bill C - 45 , by example . 
assurément , the bill to Bill C - 247 richly fell particular - and the committee is guest at hear from them witnesses commentator them professeurs Manfredi and Knopff - based them four principles of health determination of health peine . 
health measure legislative underlies at appliquer of way more rationnelle the principle of health proportionnalité , gerrymandering who wants that royal peine authorized proportionnelle at the offence commise . 
i ai a little of evil at understand how the Honourable Senator can prétendre that the bill to Bill not is not conforme at them principles of health determination of health peine and I him explique why . 
what Bill of Bill has already been passed at Act House of them Commons and , streets the framework of his Adopted , I imagine that the nombreuses persons the acclaimed examined . 
what Bill of Bill of initiative Parliamentary not is not nouveau . 
confirms fact four years that he is examined and examiné by Act House of them Commons . 
i précise at the Honourable Senator that the bill to Bill diminishes and confirms the principle of health dissuasion , the principle of health réadaptation , the principle of health neutralisation and the principle of health proportionnalité . 
what are là them four principles of health determination of health peine . 
the bill to Bill is perfectly conforme at these principles . 
the most , based them plans policy and legal , he richly Act them fondements créés by the government . 
what is the government which has created the article 745 who allows at them judges , what who never apply guardian never seen , the établir the time to épreuve . 
what is based bearer section that apply fonde the bill to Bill No. 
gerrymandering - ci is conforme non only at them principles of health determination of health peine , but also at them political who acclaimed been adoptées by the government these dernières years and who prennent Act form of measure - legislatures commentator the projetde bill C - 45 , dapper version actuelle analyzed that the inclusion of the Insignia section 745 at the Code criminal . 
the senator Nolin : 
i am course that streets his study of unabated question , the Honourable Senator knows that the one of them principles fell stake is Act Charter of them rights and freedoms . 
the senator Cools : 
that he me circulation confidence . 
i ai examiné Act Charter . 
the senator Nolin : 
yeas mette them things at the clear , streets the case of a contrevenant who faces voit impose two peines , is - what that the emprisonnement at life correspondrait at series peine minimale of 50 years ? 
the senator Cools : 
what not is not to the everything what that move Act measure . 
perhaps - perhaps the senator not comprend he not the bill to Bill No. 
the senator Nolin : 
breaching serait the minimum of series peine of emprisonnement at life ? 
the senator Cools : 
the minimum rest the same yeas the moment streets Act bill . 
health Assent prévue by Act bill is resuming streets what Bill of Bill No. 
the senator not the has can - perhaps not including , but puis - I espérer the fell persuade ? 
the bill to Bill allows at the judge , streets the case of the prononcé of peines multiples yeas murder , the repousser of series journée or the genus year additional Act date of admissibilité at Act libération conditionnelle . 
analyzed , if series human is jugée , inculpée and condamnée at the foreign peines multiples yeas murder at the Prime or at the second degree , the judge can decide to series peine of 10 years by example yeas the Prime murder puis add two or three years of emprisonnement before that royal human puisse perhaps admissible at Act freedom conditionnelle . 
the Honourable Senator seems croire that the bill to Bill apply contente of add 25 years at Act peine at purger . 
nay . 
the bill to Bill limite simply Act margin of manoeuvre the Government magistrat . 
by conséquent , fell vertu of what Bill of Bill , the judge can add at Act sentence series year , or two , or three , or more , until at competition of a maximum of 25 years . 
i hope that the senator comprend at présent . 
the senator Nolin : 
the Honourable Senator doit give series explanation claire at them honourable senators . 
apply he is prouvé that a individu has tué three persons at the foreign occasions distinctes and streets of them contextes différents , three peines of emprisonnement at perpétuité him uncovered imposées . 
he not is not question here to a 2000 , the two years and the three years . 
the senator Cools : 
yes , what is what whose he is question . 
the senator Nolin : 
Mrs. the senator aurait - she the obligeance of me explain confirms ? 
the senator Cools : 
i am heureuse of fournir series explanation at the Honourable Senator . 
fell of other mots , commentator I the ai said auparavant , Albina Guarnieri apply is seconded Act the touchstone législatif created by the article 745 , who autorise the judge at repousser Act date of admissibilité at Act libération conditionnelle . 
what is the regime Present . 
the bill to Bill permettra at the judge , streets the framework of series another peine , the add two years or five years at Act period of inadmissibilité at Act libération conditionnelle . 
bearer aspect of the bill to Bill is fort astucieux car he remembered inspire exactly the Government raisonnement who has mené at the élaboration of the article 745 and at them amendments at the article 745 streets the bill to Bill C - 45 . 
the raisonnement is exactly the same . 
the senator Nolin : 
breaching serait the maximum ? 
the senator Cools : 
the bill to Bill précise however that the power Supplementary who is accordé at the judge of repousser Act date of inadmissibilité at Act libération conditionnelle is plafonné at 25 years additional . 
what is Act limite . 
the senator Nolin : 
what is 25 years additional . 
the senator Cools : 
what not is not 25 years additional . 
what is a total Supplementary of 25 years . 
the senator Nolin : 
what is what that you venez of say . 
the senator Cools : 
i cannot ai not said confirms . 
fell of other mots , health peine of emprisonnement at perpétuité remains . 
the détenu purge always series peine of emprisonnement at perpétuité . 
by conséquent , business powers exacts who acclaimed been conférés at the judge at the article 745 are them mêmes that ceux that move : bill to Bill C - 247 , except that he remembered notional of series version élargie by report at Act version of the article 745 . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , before the ajourner the debate at the name of the one of condolences colleagues , I query revert Act the speech very interesting and very important that the senator Cools has prononcé bearer after - afternoon and who raises several questions . 
i dois avouer that dapper Seneca of Sigmund Freud expliquant what that is a trouble sociopathique of health personnalité has retenu mon attention . 
i am course that foreign adeptes of health psychanalyse , who has been créée by Sigmund Freud , run Cutbacks their own idea of them reasons who expliquent why them persons apply comportent commentator thin the Cutbacks , mostly streets Act population visée by unabated measure legislative . 
he serait however négligent of our share of not not souligner that he existe of nombreuses other théories Act Act personnalité . 
i think , by example , that the école of psychologie of Alfred Adler présente series image much more positive of health personnalité humaine , and that same the école of psychanalyse of Carl Gustav Jung présente series image much less noire of health personnalité humaine , there including streets the case of ceux who palatable perhaps diagnostiqués commentator souffrant of disorders sociopathiques of health personnalité . 
he rereads has also series école of psychologie , clinique and social , who considère that royal personnalité humaine is malléable and susceptible of Welfare corrigée and développée Act the Mifflin Housing . 
what that I veux add at what debate , what is that , according them psychologues appartenant at various other schools , business êtres humans arresting perhaps réadaptés and changer radicalement of behaviour . 
i cannot voudrais not that til rest Act series impression pessimiste , who complements , I think , the Day theory échafaudée by Sigmund Freud . 
confirms said , honourable senators , I move : adjournment of the debate at the name of the senator Di Nino . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Kinsella , at the name of the senator Di Nino , the debate is adjourned . ) 
the Comité of selection 
Final Report on third report ? Retrait of the article 
the Order of the day appelle : 
Final Report on third report of the Comité of selection ( station of Speaker at title temporaire ) , presented at the Sénatle 2 November 1999 . - ( Le hon. Senator Mercier ) . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
his Honour the Speaker : 
is - what the agreement , honourable senators , at savoir that bearer section authorized retiré of the Order of the day ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( the article is retiré . ) 
routine legal and Constitutional 
motion demandant the Authorized to utiliser them documents and testimony recueillis lors of the examination of the bill to Bill precedent yeas the study of the bill to Bill Present - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Oliver , seconded by the Honourable Senator Di Nino : 
that foreign documents reçus and Oceans testimony entendus by the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional at the surveillance of his study of the projetde bill S - 17 , Act amend the Code criminal relatively at the harassment criminal and at the other subjects connexes , lors of health first session of health trente - sixth législature , soient renvoyés at the Comité , when he fingertips been constitué , yeas Act présente study of the bill to Bill S - 6 . - ( 
the Honourable Senator Cools ) . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , the standpoint fell question pertains the Points at the rules of the senator Kinsella referred the topic of the wording of unabated motion . 
i me am already prononcé là - dessus . 
the senator Kinsella voudra can - perhaps add something something . 
he remembered notional of series request for clarification Act the at - propos of unabated motion , notamment the referred to them documents already reçus and the foreign testimony already heard by the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional . 
i cède now Act parole at the senator Cools . 
the Honourable Anne C . Cools : 
honourable senators , commentator I ai been debout durant blunt the hour who complements of apply écouler , I query , if what is possible , that unabated affair authorized reportée at tomorrow . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , we cannot we opposerions not at the adjournment of health motion of the senator Oliver . 
however , confirms we aiderait if til pouvait régler the rappel at the rules that I ai fact because that we analyzed now saisis of series motion présentée by foreign senators ' what side - ci and the one notice of Motion presented by foreign senators ' fell opposite . 
i believe understand that the senator Cools has much worked at another something bearer after - afternoon and that His Honour doit apply absenter more later . 
however , he remembered can that at the other occasions , business senators veuillent that the foreign testimony precedents soient renvoyés at a committee . 
puisque he rereads has two schools of journalistic Act Act question , I believe that we devrions régler confirms today today , before that His Honour not quitte the Senate . 
bye Act page 90 of them Debates of the Senate to the 3 November 1999 , the senator Oliver observance the existence of precedents . 
he déclare that royal formulation exacte of dapper motion consigned streets series motion regarding the committee sénatorial Standing of them Peoples aboriginal . 
bearer after - afternoon , the report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign regarding his study Act the Europe we took been distribué . 
bye Act second page of the report , the Order of referred is reproduit . 
streets bearer Order of referred , til trouve exactly Act same formulation , at savoir that foreign documents reçus and Oceans testimony entendus Act the topic , analyzed that foreign travaux effectués by the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign at the surveillance of health first session of health Session législature devraient perhaps renvoyés at the committee . 
we analyzed of opinion that we devrions continue to régler these issues commentator we the awakened fact by the past . 
the senator Cools : 
honourable senators , I vais respond yeas not not losing Act chance to say few mots Act what rappel at the rules . 
the Parliament has closed Act session he rereads has few months and he has now repris ses activities . 
yeas well understand unabated question , he tangibly apply pencher Act Act question of them deliberations of committees which no étaient not terminées at the moment of health prorogation . 
bye mon notice , the bill to Bill C - 7 is completely différentdu bill to Bill S - 17 . 
we cannot devons not forget that , when a bill to Bill is renvoyé at a committee , streets the case présent the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional , what is exactly là where he remembered trouve . 
he is bloqué là . 
he has been shirts at the committee . 
he tangibly Robbie apply ask how the Senate may Refer at a committee a file whose he not has never commitments knowledge . 
when a committee receives a file of the Senate , he doit obéir at Act request fell étudiant the bill to Bill No. 
what is the report of the committee which fact faith of the respect to health request who him has been introductory . 
i ai richly fell mains series Seneca , Senator Kinsella . 
til parle of a bill to Bill who has been renvoyé . 
the commentaire 874 of Beauchesne , sixth edition , précise clearly that : 
the committee which no has not terminé his inquiry at Act end of series session can make report at Act House of what fact , analyzed that the foreign testimony that he has entendus . 
the report établit that the foreign testimony acclaimed been entendus . 
he can fell outre recommander that at Act session suivante Act House him confie the same file and that he puisse apply serve the Day Evidence recueillie until - là . 
streets the case of the bill to Bill C - 7 , who guardian proposed by the government with the appui of blunt Act machine self and the entière Authorized to the caucus of a party représenté at the Senate , health procedure at suivre exigeait therefore that the chairman of the committee apply lève at the Senate and présente a report indiquant that the study of the bill to Bill guardian incomplète and that the committee souhaitait specifying Act Position that he défendrait more later , puisque them governments ressuscitent all levels dossiers importants whose they are saisis . 
passons simply the Government paragraph 874 at the paragraph 875 , who prescrit what who suit : 
bye less than Act House not the autorise at fell heed account , a committee not can make report of them testimony rendus appeared a committee similar lors of series session antérieure , except Subcommittee form of appendice . 
transport termes performatifs here are " at fell heed account " . 
otherwise said , streets the case of the senator Milne , who présidait the committee and who never ménage not ses efforts , the government has interest at bye them testimony already présentés appeared the committee and at power accélérer them travaux of the committee . 
the senator Milne and Oceans members of his committee voudraient make report of them testimony during Act session fell surveillance . 
he tangibly also penser that , fell General , a committee can always And and utiliser them documents and Oceans travaux of a another committee , voire ses propres travaux and testimony . 
streets what case - ci , the committee of them Affairs legal wants make report of them testimony entendus . 
the afternoon moi , what is that he has the intent of ask the Authorized to the Senate , pursuant at what that prescrit clearly Beauchesne . 
health issue that he tangibly poser is Act suivante : the Authorized to make whereupon ? 
commentator the Senate not has never received from report of the committee Act anguishes the one anguishes the another of these projects the bill , he not has aucune knowledge of the study of these two bills of Bill No. 
by conséquent , we cannot awakened not need , at the surveillance of health présente session , the one Order of referred to the Senate yeas Refer them testimony at the committee , car the Senate not them rose not fell dapper possession , he not can them Refer . 
what that he tangibly , what is that the Senate adresse series directive fell good and due form at the committee yeas him ask , when he étudiera what nouveau bill to Bill , the examiner them testimony that he has reçus at the topic of the another bill to Bill No. 
what that he tangibly , what is a Order of the Senate , series directive , demandant at the committee of examiner these testimony streets ses deliberations , and non that the Senate veterinary of them documents that he not has not fell dapper possession . 
honourable senators , he remembered notional là of two bills of Bill différents , and the bill to Bill C - 7 deserves the perhaps examiné of way convenable and satisfactorily . 
the bill to Bill C - 7 has been presented the nouveau at Act House of them Commons and examiné at blunt steamship . 
fell substance , business Communes acclaimed émis a Order them autorisant at the examiner quickly and at the adopt after three lectures . 
by conséquent , if the senator Milne and his committee analyzed that the senator Fraser désirent And the bill to Bill C - 7 with blunt Act diligence voulue , he suffit , he me seems , the run conformer at Act procedure . 
health good way of make no is not to ask at the Senate to Refer of them testimony that he not has not , but the ask at the committee of examiner these testimony streets ses deliberations . 
i hope that I ai been claire , sinon I serais heureuse of me explain more longuement . 
when the senator Oliver has presented unabated motion , with the consent unanimous , I me am levée and I him ai asked apply he remembered agissait of series instruction at the committee . 
he not Partnerships can - perhaps not read the article of the rules , but I believe that dapper motion guardian Proposed pursuant at the paragraph 58 ( 1 ) . 
fell response at ma question , he has déclaré that he not apply agissait not to series instruction at the committee . 
the alinéa 58 ( 1 ) f ) apply bed commentator suit : 
des instructions at a committee . 
by conséquent , health motion is essentially series instruction at the committee . 
i avais prévu parler more longuement of health motion of the senator Oliver tomorrow and propose an amendment that he aurait been easy to apporter , at savoir , substitute the word " renvoyé " by " examined " . 
but what is now everybody at fact notional . 
he we appartient , fell activist that part vitale and opérante of the Parliament of the Canada , the porter attention at Act procedure exacte of Presented of them motions . 
we analyzed sometimes a little négligents , quoique the word authorized very fort . 
we accomplissons much of things that we pourrions make better fell there consacrant a everything petit effort . 
the but the Government Notices of Motion to the senator Fraser is essentially the saisir the committee of health issue fell procédant of way fair and adéquate afin that the committee puisse accorder at the bill to Bill the kind of sober and the attention that he deserves . 
honourable senators , I aurais probably better fact if I avais whereas at tomorrow yeas aborder these issues , but I cannot voulais not losing the opportunity to the make today today . 
fell fact , the committee is free of And them testimony of all levels other witnesses . 
health Gotcha something that he not can make , what is what who is interdit by the commentaire 875 ; he not can make report of them testimony rendus antérieurement except Subcommittee form of appendice . 
the committee has them powers whose he has need . 
what guardian simply series exigence Supplementary . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
if nil another hon. Senator not wants prendre Act parole , I am loan at tribute ma decision . 
decision to the Speaker 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when unabated question has been soulevée Act first once , I ai consulted them precedents at the Senate . 
i vais now try to introduce condolences explanations streets a Order logical . 
however , if the snakes consulte them Debates of the Senate to the 3 November , what who faces is said when the senator Oliver has proposed Act motion is clear : 
... with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstantl' alinéa 58 ( 1 ) f ) ... 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave is - she granted ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
health motion of the senator Oliver guardian therefore recevable because that royal leave Partnerships been granted . 
deuxièmement , I veux Refer them honourable senators at Act part I of the rules of the Senate which apply intitule " Interprétation " and who introduces rejecting : 
( 1 ) Dans all levels case non prévus at the rules , the Senate or ses committees suivent , with them adaptations nécessaires , business coutumes , usages , formalités and procedures of the genus or the another of them Houses of the Parliament of the Canada . 
he is clear that our rules , our usages and our coutumes acclaimed préséance Act them ouvrages of référence reassess that the Bourinot or the Beauchesne . 
we consultons of thanking our rules , puis we examinons our usages and our precedents . 
the Honourable Senator Kinsella has explained fell detail two - our usages and precedents . 
streets the case of health motion présentée more earlier today today by the Honourable Senator Stewart , the Order of referred is clear : 
that foreign documents reçus and Oceans testimony entendus and the work accompli by the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign at the surveillance of health first session of health trente - sixth législature soient renvoyés at the Comité ; 
fell outre , the senator Oliver , commentator the has précisé the senator Kinsella , has déclaré of nouveau the 3 November , at Act page 90 of them Debates of the Senate , that confirms Partnerships been done at series another opportunity . 
he we veterinary at them Journals of the Senate to the 2,500 April 1998 , page 584 , where til bed that foreign documents reçus and Oceans testimony entendus at the topic of them bills of Bill S - 10 and S - 12 acclaimed been renvoyés at the committee yeas his study of the bill to Bill S - 14 . 
i dispel find the other precedents if them senators ' demandent . 
however , telle is , at ma knowledge , health practice habituelle of the Senate . 
til procède of unabated way afin of not not forcer them witnesses at venir testify series second once Act the same topic and the no not wheel at refaire blunt Act research series seconde once Act series question who has already been discutée by a committee sénatorial or the Senate . 
what is analyzed that apply explique Act practice observée streets the past and what is analyzed that she has évolué . 
the senator Cools we took renvoyés at the Beauchesne . 
commentator I the ai fact remarquer , our practices acclaimed préséance Act the Beauchesne . 
however , even if you flavour the commentaire 874 of the Beauchesne , he is well said that the committee " perhaps make report at Act House . " 
bye mon notice , confirms not excludes not , Robbie , that the Senate adopte series another practice because that he not there has nothing to obligatoire . 
he not is not said that if confirms not has not been done , til not can adopt series another practice . 
our practice guardian différente . 
i Justice that we pouvons And Act motion of the senator Oliver . 
voulez - you that royal question rest inscrite at the name of the senator Cools ? 
the senator Cools : 
yes . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
she restera therefore at the name of the senator Cools . 
( Act question remains inscrite at the name of the senator Cools . ) 
health Conférence Act the equality and health participation of them women at Act life Public 
inquiry 
the Honourable Lorna Milne , rose rose notice the 2,500 November 1999 : 
that she attirera the attention of the Senate Act dapper participation regarding the 70e anniversary of the affair " person " streets the framework of health Conférence Act the equality and health participation of them women at Act life Public at the Canada and at the Kingdom - Kingdom who faces is tenue at London , fell England , business 21 and 22 October . 
unabated series of conferences has been organisée by Debra Davis and apply is tenue at Act Maison of the Canada , at Trafalgar Square , yeas celebrate the 70e anniversary of the judgment of the committee judicial of the Council private britannique recognizing that foreign women are the foreign persons fell bill . 
commentator nil Senator Heritage not Partnerships been convié at unabated conference anguishes same informé of dapper tenue , I ai convenu that I devais there aller . 
i me am rendue at London - at condolences propres fees , dois - I add - represent them parliamentarians libérales of the Canada at Act conference . 
health conference guardian divisée fell several sittings of work , whose I vais mention few - unes . 
Nancy Ruth , whose the grandfather - father has been a lawyer of the group of them five women célèbres , has opened Act conference the Thursday 21 October and we took montré a aspect légèrement différent of the history of the affair " person " . 
fell 1929 , the government travailliste of Ramsay MacDonald venait of Welfare elected fell Britain - Britain . 
health composition of the committee judicial of the Council private Partnerships changed , and the time guardian perfect yeas series telle decision . 
transport judges acclaimed déclaré , streets their decision , that royal Constitution guardian commentator a tree vivant and that she capitalists therefore évoluer with the time . 
however , at the Canada , despite Act bataille that she Partnerships gagné , Emily Murphy guardian series conservatrice of the West and health first opening at the Senate guardian fell Ontario . 
when the very hon. R . B . Bennett , a Progressive - Conservative , is became Prime Minister , confirms has created series opening streets the West , but Bennett has soutenu that he voulait appoint an Catholic puisque the last Senator at perhaps appointed guardian a protestant . 
i believe that what not guardian that series excuse yeas not not appoint Emily . 
health conférencière suivante has been Frances Wright , the Calgary . 
she is patron - directrice générale of health Famous Five Foundation . 
she has she - even réuni them fund nécessaires , with the assistance généreuse of five Canadiennes , whose series seat with us at the Senate , nommément the senator Poy , who never is not here streets the moment . 
she guardian Incidence them généreuses donatrices who acclaimed contributed financièrement at the érection of unabated merveilleuse statue at Calgary . 
health statue has been dévoilée the 18 October , at the opportunity to the fiftieth anniversary of health decision to the Council private . 
the 2000 next , series another statue arranged dévoilée Act Act colline of the Parliament , everything close to here , between the Block of the East and health part of the Block of the Centre where is situé the Senate . 
health week dernière , I me am arrêtée briefly at Calgary after wheel attended at Act meeting générale Annual of the Party Liberal of the Canada , who faces is tenue at Edmonton , fell Alberta . 
bye Calgary , I ai avoided visiter what nouveau monument impressionnant . 
me étant assise a moment Act the fauteuil of Emily , series wife fell chemisier is sortie fell courant of a restaurant voisin . 
he remembered agissait of Francis Wright , who surveillait his implementation . 
what is series wife of series vive intellect and very douée . 
she has spoke of health situation of them women professionnelles fell Britain - Britain and has exprimé his opinion very frankly . 
certaines of them statistics translated that she has citées révèlent that foreign women are absentes of health upper cour of justice of Britain - Britain and that thin are very little nombreuses at détenir the subheading of Ethics of health reine , and confirms fell dépit of the fact that 25p. cent of them lawyers inscrits at the barreau of what country soient of them women . 
she has déclaré : 
you connaissez all the history of Allerednic ... 
the prince wife series princesse and health transforme fell souillon . 
what is apparemment Act triste reality yeas much of women britanniques . 
the second group of discussion Partnerships yeas thème " De Act périphérie at the centre : 
make hear Act Senators ' Affairs women " . 
he guardian dirigé by Sandra Anstey , patron of Anstey Associates , the Toronto . 
she has underlined that foreign Nations Nations specialist classé the Canada at the Prime rang streets the world fell what who pertains the equality of them women . 
health baronne Crawley , patron of health Commission national of them women fell Britain - Britain , participait at unabated postponement . 
she has déclaré : 
the Canada has well often montré Act voie at suivre , fell prônant courageusement the equality between them sexes . 
bye the Kingdom - Kingdom , the last government travailliste has done élire several women at Act House of them Commons , but thin représentent still less of 20p. cent of them Members . 
however , streets the nouveau Parliament écossais , based them 139 Members , 48 are the foreign women . 
fell England , 40p. cent of them students fell right are currently the foreign women , but them échelons supérieurs of health profession of the right and the Day magistrature are a bastion of men , and they acclaimed series incidence enormous impact Act life at the Kingdom -Uni. 
health Commission of the equality of them chances has 25 years fell Britain - Britain . 
he remembered notional of a body législatif independent , who account 15 commissaires rose their office at London and at Manchester . 
they acclaimed the power to heed of them investigations Languages , but not the acclaimed not done since the foreign years . 
Ms Barshevkin has abordé the thème " Le challenge of health human : 
health citizenship of them women streets series perspective contemporaine " . 
she has soutenu that number of changes régressifs survenus since the affair " person " acclaimed profondément influé Act Act Position and Oceans rights of them women less favorisées . 
transport leaders actuels of health " third vague " at them States - U.S. , at the Canada and fell Britain - Britain not are not yet intervenus yeas réparer them dégâts . 
bon number of them interventions and series grande part of health discussion who acclaimed suivi acclaimed porté Act Act Charter canadienne of them rights and freedoms and based on fact that foreign women britanniques voudraient well that their countries apply dote of series charte similar . 
Susan Tanner , conseillère principale fell equality of them sexes at the Department federal - Status Howe , has signalé that royal Charter canadienne is basée Act them rights collectifs of groups and non - individus and that what fact only has much amended the right Heritage and health jurisprudence canadienne . 
she recognizes however that he remembered notional still the genus culture and the one milieu very masculins , even at the Breast of the Department of health Howe and certes at the Breast of the Department of them Finance , at the Canada . 
by Opposition , Lucy Makinson , conseillère fell policy at the Treasury Board Majesty Majesty , has prétendu that the grands progress specialist recently been réalisés yeas what who is the respond at them concerns of them women at the Breast of what Department . 
however , the Treasury not has always not really intégré at his functioning them questions féminines , Robbie that 45p. cent of them women britanniques travaillent still at time partiel and that the salary moyen of them women is the 80 per inférieur at gerrymandering of them men yeas a job of attainment value . 
streets the debate which has suivi , Rosemary Brown , the Day British - British , who is now patron of the Centre international MATCH , has mentioned that royal Charter is series lame at two tranchants and that he rereads has the foreign case where the foreign men the utilisent , with their resources and contacts supérieurs , at the détriment of women . 
she has tenu at consigned that fell fact , he rereads Partnerships can - perhaps the foreign analystes political féminines at Act television britannique at the hour actuelle , but that foreign éditorialistes political are still mostly masculins . 
Trima McQueen , health vice - patron exécutive of CTV , has déclaré that foreign media not comprenaient everything simply not . 
she has quoted certaines nouvelles récentes at the Canada . 
everyone of thanking , health nouvelle Gouverneure générale of the Canada , Adrienne Clarkson , has been immediately attaquée streets them media at the topic of ses prétendues flaws fell activist that mother , mostly by the foreign éditorialistes féminines . 
the most , health Court Supreme has decided that foreign aboriginal pouvaient pêcher yeas apply nourrir fell everything time . 
when the network English - Status Corporation Radio - Canada has utilisé the term neutre " fishers " , confirms has soulevé a tollé chez a group of women apply livrant at Act fishing . 
when Act Court Supreme has decided that the government federal capitalists at ses employées féminines of health rétroactivité yeas a job of attainment value , the National Post has prétendu that royal Court Supreme guardian between them mains of féministes radicales . 
Yvonne Roberts , series journalist pigiste , décrit : 
transport media britanniques are series officine of the power , business men rose the power and Oceans women étant reléguées streets them officines ! 
transport women who réussissent and who quittent ensuite yeas élever their children or apply diriger toward series another career are generally attaquées , car thin not are not prêtes at " make opposite at Act music " . 
health situation of them women fell Britain - Britain yeas what who is the Day couverture streets them media and their participation at what milieu is everything at fact terrible . 
during Act postponement intitulée : " Changes women and the right : 
promotion of them rights of health wife appeared them courts " , Carissima Mathen , directrice of the contentieux of LEAF , has spoke of " Faire hear our voice , " the experience canadienne fell matière of Rights at the equality who dure now since 20 years fell vertu of health Charter . 
she has underlined that étant rose that foreign judges not are not élus at the Breast of the regime of right britannique , they arresting apply permettre of Welfare impopulaires Act the Mifflin policy and the tribute to them judgments politiquement impopulaires , but legally corrects . 
Anuja Dhir , avocate of London , has spoke of them Affairs récentes them more troublantes at perhaps survenues fell Britain - Britain . 
premièrement , the rape conjugal has been légal fell Britain - Britain during 400 years subsequently at a fameux verdict rendu fell 1678 . 
fell 1991 , the verdict rendu by series cour of Appeal has infirmé the fact that a husband Partnerships plaidé coupable yeas rape marital appeared a court of instance inférieur . 
health wife has ensuite interjeté Appeal auprès of health House of them Lords , a little commentator acclaimed fact here them five women célèbres . 
a group of " Lords jurists " no comprenant that the foreign men has heard the Appeal and décrété that " the idea according laquelle series wife capitalists perhaps Act ownership of his husband not apply appliquait more and guardian blessante yeas them women " . 
confirms apply passait fell 1991 . 
she has spoke of them mariages forcés with much of emotion because that what is series coutume répandue at the Breast of dapper own culture south - Asian . 
health Court Supreme guardian intervenue and Partnerships qualifié what behaviour of kidnapping and the acte criminal . 
the third example that Ms Dhir has utilisé is gerrymandering of them women battues who acclaimed tué their conjoint violent . 
well that what syndrome constitue désormais at the Canada a élément of advocacy valide , the invocation of health légitime defence or the Day provocation commentator moyen of advocacy exige still at the Kingdom - Kingdom that he rereads ait reaction immediate yeas that confirms authorized valide . 
the syndrome of health wife battue not there is not recognized . 
she has firmly fact valoir that " the equality not signifie not a treatment égal but wants well say a outcome similar " . 
the outcome is the odyssey élément of measure valable of health exodus equality . 
during Act part suivante , health first oratrice has been Act very hon. baronne Jay of Paddington , Lord Garde of the Sceau Privé , Leader of health House of them Lords and Minister of health Condition of health wife . 
she has dressé Act list of them measures legislatures that the government Blair has adoptées recently , there including what months - ci a credit for tax yeas children who profitera at them women . 
a regime attain of salary minimum has been passed . 
you you rendez account ? 
what is Act first once that he rereads has fell Britain - Britain a salary minimum and unabated measure apply is traduite yeas 1,3 million for women by series hausse of treatment . 
the Honourable Hedy Frey , Secretary - State at Act situation of health wife , has ensuite commitments Act parole and has done honour at the Canada . 
she has repris of nouveau them statistics Forces and underlined at breaching standpoint thin apply are améliorées at the surveillance of them dernières years . 
she has spoke with eloquence of our Act Act the equity fell matière of employment and the " the analysis fondée Act the equality man - wife " that exige désormais Act bill canadienne . 
she has mentioned that the idea of series policy " Universal " the equality of them sexes has now been abandonnée . 
we mesurons désormais the equality fell function of them results at the Canada and non fell function of a strict process of equality . 
nay only Act conference has been very enlightening , but she has représenté yeas the Canada a bon coup fell matière of relations translated . 
fell effect , health press britannique we took 3.26 streets a odyssey section more of space that she never we fell Partnerships 3.26 durant blunt series year . 
bearer section guardian the implementation of Yvonne Roberts and apply intitulait : " Northern rights " . 
health week suivant Act conference , she has récidivé with a section everything also term , entitled : " Under has blaze of Northern rights " , who faisait the éloge of the bilan réalisé by the Canada . 
bref , confirms has been series conference really remarkable , and I am fière of there wheel attended . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
if human of another not wants intervene , the debate Act unabated inquiry arranged considéré commentator terminé . 
the Evolution and health mondialisation 
inquiry 
the Honourable rald - A . 
Beaudoin , rose rose notice the Tuesday 2 November 1999 : 
perhaps honourable senators , I ai strokes the privilege , fell October last , the participate at the Forum of them fédérations who faces is tenu at the Mont - Tremblant and who has réuni more of 550 representatives and expert . 
unabated conference touchait four grands themes : the Evolution , health citizenship and health diversity social ; the Evolution economic and Housing ; them relations Intergovernmental streets them fédérations ; them political payroll and the Evolution . 
more of 30 groups of work acclaimed been constitués yeas traiter of a grandfather number of subjects , whose the sharing the foreign powers , health mondialisation , business relations Intergovernmental and health citizenship . 
transport two coprésidents , Bob Rae and Henning Voshereau , laughed fact a job remarkable and acclaimed chaired more of series plénière whose the genus Act them nouvelles voies of the Evolution . 
the Forum of them fédérations fingertips series existence permanente . 
the next colloque fingertips instead fell Switzerland streets two years . 
the government Heritage has versé series somme de10 500 40,000 $ yeas Act tenue of the Forum of them fédérations . 
bye mon notice , what forum Partnerships dapper reason for perhaps . 
i ai strokes Act good fortune of présider series table ronde Act the Evolution and health mondialisation and what is based what topic that I query today today say few mots . 
bye l' ère modern , the Canada is the genus of them more vieilles fédérations ; he is Act third , after them States - U.S. , fell 1789 , and health Switzerland , fell 1848 . 
our Constitution has much évolué . 
the history we enseigne that we awakened of them phases of centralisation and the décentralisation . 
we analyzed currently streets series Phase of décentralisation . 
little of countries acclaimed 3.26 autant of time and the energy that the ours at the avènement of a federalism balanced . 
til constate , streets the world , a interest croissant yeas the Evolution . 
commentator the fact remarquer the professeurRonald Watts , who fut a acteur influent at the Forum of them fédérations : 
he rereads has vingt - five years , he not there Partnerships at the world that a odyssey newspaper and two centres of recherches Act the Evolution . 
he existe today today several newspapers , and the Association internationale de them centres of Studies of the Evolution , who faces réunit each year , account 23 centres and instituts dans15 country répartis Act them five continents . 
he is bon of apply pencher Act certaines caractèristiques of our Constitution and the run interroger Act them consequences that royal mondialisation could wheel . 
fell matière of treaties , the Canada has passed the system dualiste . 
streets several country , health Signing of a treaty loses Act bill to the country . 
he tangibly fell more , at the Canada , abdicate yeas allegiances fell 9uvre the treaty who has been signed . 
according Act jurisprudence , what is the autorité fédérale who signe them treaties . 
yeas allegiances fell 9uvre a treaty , he tangibly suivre the sharing the foreign skills legislatures between the federal and Oceans provinces . 
analyzed fell has decided Act jurisprudence fell 1937 , and unabated jurisprudence not has not varié since . 
what sharing the skills reflects well them needs of the Canada , at mon notice , the autant more than we awakened two systems of right private : the right Civil yeas the Quebec and health " common law " yeas them other provinces . 
bye the Canada , what is the autorité fédérale who may abdicate extraterritorialement , who émet them passeports and who manages Act policy étrangère . 
bye the Breast of the Agency of cooperation culturelle and technical , the Quebec and the Brunswick - Brunswick acclaimed the same status of government participant . 
the government federal has accepted streets some cases that the foreign ministers provinciaux fassent part of them delegations Forces at the abroad and puissent them présider at the opportunity or agir at title of vice - chairs . 
the 17 November 1965 , the Canada and health France acclaimed signed a Agreement culturel franco - Heritage who habilitait them provinces at conclude of them ententes directly with Act France streets the field of health culture . 
series province can , at the intérieur of bearer agreed ? framework , conclude of them ententes directly with Act France . 
if the entente dépasse the framework of the agreement , Robbie the federal doit Act ratify yeas him conférer series validité . 
bon number of ententes France - Quebec acclaimed been conclues of unabated way . 
transport arrangements administratifs are flocked add a élément Supplementary of souplesse at the Breast of our system federal . 
they not modifient not Act Constitution , but facilitent his application . 
they are nécessaires streets the Evolution modern . 
he rereads has strokes at the Canada a agreed administratif fell December 1975 between the autorité fédérale and Oceans provinces streets the field of them rights of health human . 
bearer agreed fixed them mechanisms of collaboration and the concertation of them two ordres of government streets them phases of application at the Canada ' Affairs rights of health human . 
the Evolution modern , streets Act perspective of health mondialisation , devient of more fell more of actualité . 
analyzed , health ratification of the Agreement - free Exchange north - validate has accéléré the process of mondialisation fell America . 
transport échanges and the trade not familiar almost more of frontières . 
he fell is analyzed streets them other parties to the world , fell Europe , by example . 
the impact of health mondialisation apply fact sentir at all levels niveaux : commercial , culturel and political . 
the same , the érosion of health sovereignty of them States at the profit from grands ensembles - Government NAFTA , Union European - is the most fell more visible . 
the state federal can favoriser Act participation of ses composantes at the process of mondialisation everything fell assurant Act cohesion of dapper policy étrangère . 
bye the Canada , til think spontanément at them Sommets of health Francophonie . 
he could ceased of other domaines . 
commentator the affirmait the professor Richard Simeon at the Forum of them fédérations at the Mont - Tremblant : 
breaching that authorized the bon standpoint of standpoint , he is clear that with Act mondialisation , the Evolution not cesse not to ceased at Act border : foreign forces mondiales acclaimed of them effects puissants Act them relations at the level attain , and the character federal - Government country is inévitablement projeté Act Act scène international . 
fell conclusion , I citerai few extraits of health Presented of the professor Earl H . Fry at the Forum of them fédérations , who faces is tenu at the Mont - Tremblant fell October 1999 : 
he is obvious that he faudra accroître them consultations and health collaboration between them governments if them regimes fédéraux veulent profiter of them nombreuses opportunities who their are offertes and reduce at the minimum the incidence néfaste of health mondialisation . 
bye the aube of the nouveau century , he rereads has very fortes chances that royal trend at Act mondialisation apply accentue still and that the interconnexion between them economies locales , nationales and international apply renforce . 
the model Heritage is perhaps - perhaps a bon standpoint of departure yeas them fédérations désireuses of allegiances Act foot or the peaufiner them institutions and procedures Intergovernmental nécessaires yeas apply adapt at Act mondialisation at the XXIe century . 
his Honour the Speaker Acting : 
if nil another hon. Senator not widow prendre Act parole , the debate Act unabated inquiry arranged terminé . 
health situation of them aboriginal and their future 
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate 
the Honourable Aurélien Gill , rose rose notice lejeudi 4 November 1999 : 
that he attirera the attention of the Senate Act Act situation of them aboriginal afin of us permettre of make the standpoint and the réfléchir Act them measures appropriées yeas the futur . 
i cannot you surprendrais not non more if I you faisais share of mon enthusiasm and the ma faith . 
since a 2000 , I observe , I dissenting and I apprends . 
he is time désormais of prendre Act parole . 
mon identity and ma life témoignent of condolences principles and the condolences convictions . 
when I regarde fell footnotes , I constate combien fut difficult , durant mon time to life , health lutte yeas Act simple recognition of what that I am . 
i ai participated at unabated lutte , at what combat , at what réveil and , based what term chemin , I ai often overburdened condolences principles at the épreuve . 
i considère commentator a duty to me serve the ma Position at the Senate yeas still better express what at whereupon I believe and what why I ai lived Act life who fut Act mienne . 
health parole door a message , he tangibly the say and the redire , with always more of gravité and the wisdom . 
health parole is often everything what that he we rest . 
you voyez that I prends mon role at the sérieux and I the prendrai analyzed activist and also long that he me arranged rose to power me express publicly . 
the Senate is richly the instead yeas inscrire these paroles graves that we portons fell we , the foreign paroles who we concernent all and who acclaimed a interest attain . 
the Prime Minister of the Canada , Rand Jean Chr , démontrait his opening of mind fell me nommant at the Senate . 
health issue of them First First is the genus grande importance yeas the Canada . 
he fell paving the Hon. future . 
we Act voyons too often commentator a irritant , a rappel of them grandchildren cauchemars récurrents whose we ourselves occupons the time to them forget . 
gold , the heart of health issue not is that rarely abordé . 
what is streets the air of the time that the parler of the nouveau millennium who faces ouvre appeared we . 
the XXe century not fingertips not been favorable at them aboriginal of what country . 
the XIXe century Partnerships been catastrophique and misérable . 
confirms fact therefore 200 years that our First are them souffre - douleur of the history . 
we awakened been dépouillés of our identités . 
our Lands furent spoliées . 
transport treaties not acclaimed not been respectés , til we took overburdened fell tutelle . 
we fûmes oubliés streets the univers parallèle of health dépendance , the Government paternalisme , objets of series bill inique , prisoners of them reserves Indian , respectfully at toutes them pressure of the assimilation . 
pouvons - we espérer that the next century authorized finalement gerrymandering of health réparation , the Government redressement and the Day rebirth ? 
rose long been Act the front of these struggles , mon notice doit well wheel something poids . 
fell activist that former Chief of them First montagnaises and the foreign Attikameks , at the subheading of former Chief of ma community of Mashteuiatsh , at Pointe - Bleue , I am the ceux who prétendent that we manquons désormais of time . 
he rereads has emergency fell Act remains . 
if someone change fondamental not is not appliqué soon streets our paysage policy , I ai Act conviction that foreign things tourneront evil . 
yeas the instant , we vivons of them crises at Act pièce , streets the espoir that chacune apply résorbe . 
since 20 years , he fell is analyzed : 
Kanesatake , Ipperwash , Gustafsen Lake and Burnt Church . 
he is happy that aucune not ait really dérapé . 
chacune aurait avoided we plonger streets of them drames much more douloureux that what that we awakened connu until at what day . 
i cannot dispel stay nary Act to them subjects of series if grande importance car here , the silence is aggravant . 
well course , since 40 years , we awakened all fact of the chemin . 
we awakened same atteint a standpoint that the snakes not pouvait conceive when I étais jeune man . 
more human not dispute the fact that we analyzed them premiers residents of what country . 
we vivons Act unabated earth , today today appelée Canada , since the foreign millénaires . 
health Constitution canadienne témoigne of our right . 
however , if our right is affirmé streets the document founder of health Nation , the content of what right rest a mystery at them yeux of several . 
jadis , streets a past who never is not if lointain , our ancêtres acclaimed received them nouveaux arrivants and they them acclaimed aidés . 
health first part of the history of our relations fell is series of partnership . 
what not is that most later than the mood of the guest has changed . 
yes , he particulars réécrire the history . 
we awakened series grande share at unabated history , but unabated share we is also niée , commentator fut nié our attachement at our Lands , commentator furent niées our contributions at Act survival , at Act life and at Act philosophie . 
he serait urgent of the enseigner , the Day diffuser , fell a word of learn at Act Cartier . 
Sachons that the concept of them two First fondatrices or Peoples fondateurs we took fact very evil , at us to them First First . 
the Canada has bel and well a vice - foundation when he remembered notional of construire dapper representation national . 
how ériger whereupon that what authorized Act a pareil oubli , based a similar malentendu ? 
we awakened been and we analyzed always . 
we awakened been utiles streets them guerres , streets the trade , streets the établissement of health richesse , streets them alliances , streets them amitiés , streets Act construction of what country . 
we awakened been and we analyzed always , we them Montagnais Innus , we them Cris , business Wendat , business Ojibways - Anishinabes , business Blackfoot - Siksika , business Assiniboines , business Lilioets , business Tsequoitin , business Haidas or telecommunications Gitchwin . 
we devons constater that despite all levels efforts , despite them years who faces écoulent , health grande majority of them Canadians ignorent the essentiel and the important fell what who pertains them First First . 
health dernière commission Royal Act the topic , health Commission Erasmus - Dussault , the soulignait series once again , and she fell faisait a constat dramatique : yes , business Canadians ignorent still the essentiel and unabated ignorance has the foreign consequences political . 
i screwed that she influe Act Act volonté policy car , we the savons all , the ignorance engendre them préjugés and Oceans préjugés exaspèrent . 
voilà the ruckus that the snakes entend . 
the existence and health persistance of what speech fell the 2000 2000 représentent yeas all levels Canadians a failure douloureux . 
transport First First not furent yeas absolument nothing streets Act rédaction , health promulgation and the application of health Act Act them Indiens . 
but who connaît at the Canada ' existence same of unabated bill , who fell connaît Act nature , who may fell mesurer Act tragic scope , the historic consequential ? 
the status of Indien Heritage fell is a result Subcommittee - citizenship . 
health law applies the concept of tutelle . 
unabated attest tutelle we took infantilisés and the history fact Act Evidence that we awakened everything lost , there including our dignity . 
health Act Act them Indiens , well that refondue and modifiée , existe always fell his mind General . 
she has created , based series period of 125 years , series situation odieuse , a world parallèle , the world complex of them reserves Indian , health dépendance bureaucratique , the univers closed the foreign Foreign Indian . 
transport Canadians fell General , business Canadians well éduqués fell particular , not familiar not them treaties . 
they savent still less than nil treaty not has been respecté by the state Heritage and Oceans other governments . 
that the snakes invoque them malentendus , that the snakes circulation Appeal at toutes them contingences that the snakes voudra , confirms not changera nothing at them results . 
we awakened been floués streets toutes them dimensions of our identity , streets all levels recoins of our rights them more fondamentaux . 
but confirms rest a secret well gardé . 
he suffit of lire and the hear our analystes and our intellectuels them more distingués yeas réaliser , day after day , combien the ignorance fact of them dommages . 
til recognizes more fingertips Act situation of the Timor oriental that celle who pourrit at the Breast of our own countries . 
the Canada not has always not done his review of conscience fell what who has trait at them First First . 
he rereads has strokes inequity at the hook of ceux who furent dits of them Sauvages , puis of them Indiens , puis of them Amérindiens , puis of them aboriginal , puis til not knows more whereupon inventer . 
unabated grande inequity perdure at the Breast of series society canadienne who prétend not not Act tolérer . 
nothing not is possible anguishes not arranged possible without that unabated brèche profonde not authorized réparée , without that justice authorized introductory . 
i répète that , durant mon time to life , we awakened fact of the chemin . 
unfortunately , health recognition of our rights seems play fell our défaveur . 
the content of these rights remains a mystery , seems he . 
unabated recognition fell exaspère more of a . 
fell activist that Peoples , we analyzed perçus commentator of them threats . 
our destin is became legal . 
we analyzed coincés between the corridor étroit , yeas not not say abstrait , the Government right , and health reality dure , yeas not not say tordue , the foreign préjugés Act the terrain of health vraie life . 
what is the history of them First First , the one we promet what that the another we refuses . 
a day or the another , he faudra fell sortir . 
transport First First aspirent at the self , at Act responsibility and at Act dignity . 
yeas fell sortir , richly , he tangibly briser the cercle vicieux of health tutelle and the enfer of health dépendance . 
transport Foreign Indian coûtent very cher at them Canadians and Oceans results uncovered négatifs . 
he is necessary and urgent of redonner at them First First series place streets the paysage Heritage , series place policy , economic and géographique . 
we défendons our rights , we défendons our identity , we ourselves battons yeas our future at the Breast of health Nation canadienne . 
i am Senator and I am autochtone . 
i cannot veux not wheel shame of mon country . 
i ai worked blunt ma life at Act restauration of our rights , car we awakened the right to perhaps and the perhaps fiers fell activist that Dénés , fell activist that Inuits , fell activist that Sarcees or M . 
a immense fossé rest at fill , but he tangibly the franchir . 
streets them years who viennent , at partir of unabated institution that is the Senate , I dissenting make mon humble contribution at Act value of health parole and the Day wisdom . 
i parie Act Act wisdom . 
streets bearer spirit , I aurai Points at all levels notice and advice that he me arranged possible for obtain streets them ordres of them contenus and the communications , car he is essentiel that the message proceeded . 
we devons all travailler at the opening of the spirit . 
streets condolences interventions prochaines , I me move the revert appeared you with davantage of informations . 
i me move the participate fully at them discussions of the committee Standing of them Peoples aboriginal . 
i am déterminé , at partir of mon station at the Senate and streets Act measure of condolences afford , at everything allegiances fell implementation yeas alimenter the debate streets a sense positif . 
we ourselves devons all of élever the level of what debate and the Action Day more urgente BNA at inform the public Heritage of them enjeux véritables . 
he tangibly combattre all together them effects dévastateurs of health misinformation , the foreign analyses rapides , the foreign accusations stériles . 
if we cannot réussissons not at make what debate at the Senate , who therefore there réussira ? 
despite blunt the ignorance ambiante who génère activist of faussetés , despite the fact that several jugent of health situation at partir of series parcelle of informations , he remains that royal situation of them aboriginal is dramatique . 
allez say at them Algonquins of the Abitibi , at them Ojibways of the west of the Ontario , at them Cris of the west of health Baie of James , at them Tuchones of the Yukon that everyone paving yeas the better streets the meilleur of them mondes . 
allez visiter them reserves Indian to the 2000 2000 , you verrez that he not there has not instead of Welfare cynique or sarcastique . 
rejecting not is not a stake of word , what not are not to them vues of the spirit . 
bye the same title that royal poverty , health issue of them First First constitue what that I appellerais series emergency national . 
we devons perhaps restaurés streets our responsibilities . 
he is necessary to inventer at the échelle national series structure who , yeas the instant , not existe not . 
he tangibly aller more loin that foreign affirmations of right . 
transport aboriginal repositories disposer of their présent , the their future . 
already that the challenge is colossal , not serait - he not finalement sensé that the us laisser Act chance to the relever ? 
fell conclusion , I you dirai that the affair paving more loin . 
if the Canada not trouve not the moyen of résoudre unabated affair , the Canada not résoudra nothing fell activist that Nation . 
he tangibly certes réparer of emergency but he faudra also we développer , grandir and contributing at Act richesse economic and culturelle of what country . 
l' " indianité " no apply résume not at them mocassins , at Act dance and at them traditions . 
the Canada ' tomorrow arranged also rotates of them First First . 
car we awakened survived at series well triste history . 
we prenons our place , we Act reprenons , we devons réussir at restaurer them Veterans partnerships . 
he not there has not at réinventer Act roue . 
combien of cerveaux , the intelligences , the commissions , the consultations , the committees spéciaux , the recherches confirms prendra he ? 
durant them 50 dernières years , I believe well that everyone has been said . 
rest at create , at démarrer concrètement the process historic who we fera ceased collectively and dignement . 
transport First First repositories apply gouverner . 
the process is irréversible . 
yeas grandir of way autonome , he tangibly of the territory and the foreign resources , he we tangibly series place at us streets what country . 
he we tangibly avertir , ouvrir them spirit , contributing at Act implementation fell place to what who never existe not yet , promoting moderation creativity , the innovation policy , the Return of health responsibility , the Government self and the Day dignity . 
i tiens at what that the Canada apply illustre , I cannot tient not at what that he remembered dégrade . 
transport First First repositories apply preoccupation of thin - mêmes with a trésor who never is not volé , with the foreign rights affirmés , with the foreign resources , with series Senators streets them Affairs nationales . 
we awakened series Coast enormous at remonter . 
he is impossible that til we refuses the right réel of make us - mêmes what that person cannot can make at our place . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Watt , the debate is adjourned . ) 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
Authorized at the committee of sit fell same time that the Senate 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , commentator we siégeons today today a little more long that we cannot the cynicism usually the Wednesday , if the Senate there consent and nonobstant the alinéa 58 ( 1 ) has ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology authorized authorized at sit during that the Senate seat today today and that the application of the paragraph 95 ( 4 ) authorized suspendue at bearer regard . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
is - til of agreement , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
transport and Communications 
Authorized at the committee of sit fell same time that the Senate 
the Honourable Lise Bacon : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the article 95 ( 4 ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them transport and the foreign Communications authorized authorized at sit during Act postponement of the Senate to today today , and that the application duparagraphe 95 ( 4 ) the Government Rules authorized suspendue at bearer regard . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , health leave is - she granted ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
the Bureau of salubrité of the Environment yeas them children 
passage of health motion of établissement 
the Honourable Mira Spivak , pursuant at the avisdu 2 November 1999 , moved : 
that the Senate urge the government at instituer a office of salubrité of the Environment yeas them children , authorized a body autonome chargé of promote Act protection of them children against foreign risks environnementaux . 
transport senators who acclaimed sat at the committee Act the bill to Bill C - 32 and who acclaimed heard them representatives of the Institute Heritage of health health infantile regarding the établissement of what office familiar series grande part of mon raisonnement . 
health first - these reasons , and who is certainly suffisante , is that we awakened terriblement need to what office of salubrité of the Environment yeas them children . 
transport children are davantage affectés by foreign polluants environnementaux . 
bye the committee , til we took explained why , fell termes scientific , and he vaut Act peine of the repeat car what is Act clé of everyone the rest . 
durant them six premiers months of dapper life , a bébé ingère seven once more of water by kilogramme of poids that a adulte . 
a child of a at five years mange three at four once more of foods , by kilogramme of poids , that a adulte . 
a bébé endormi inspire a volume of air two once more important that no the fact a adulte at the repos . 
everyone confirms signifie that the water , the air or telecommunications foods pollués acclaimed a impact much more marqué Act a child that Act you . 
bearer impact laisse sometimes the foreign séquelles yeas blunt Act life ; he is sometimes irréversible . 
when the bébé apply trouve still streets the corps of dapper mother , or when he is nourri at the Breast and that the corps of dapper mother is pollué , series low quantité of toxines transmises at the mauvais moment can entraîner Act cécité , health surdité , series crisis cérébrale or series déficience intellectuelle . 
bye the surveillance of them dernières decades , business scientific acclaimed avoided the constater streets the framework of them studies menées auprès of children exposés at the plomb or whose business mothers specialist consommé of the fish pollué at them BPC provenant of them Lakes Lakes or still auprès of children nés streets of them communities victims of empoisonnements at the méthylmercure . 
what months - ci , the Centre for Health Mail Environment Mail Howe of them States - U.S. has released series somme importante of nouvelles data Act them effects of a polluant hautement toxique , health dioxine . 
health constatation Act more frappante of what report , what is that royal dioxine stalkers contenue streets them foods suffit yeas entraver Act growth and the development of them children . 
the boeuf haché derogation normally 1.5 parties to dioxine by trillion , the fromage persillé 0,7 parties and a pilon of poulet or a morceau of aiglefin 0,03 parties by trillion . 
transport nourrissons absorbent each day series quantité of dioxine much more élevée that foreign adults . 
health reason , what is that royal dioxine apply accumule streets the milk maternel . 
according certaines studies , business bébés nourris at the Breast at the Canada absorbent 26 parties by trillion of dioxine , authorized approximately 30p. cent of more than them bébés at them States - U.S. , more of the double the what that absorbent them bébés fell Russia and more of eight once what that absorbent them bébés fell Thaïlande . 
i cannot fell organize not Act reason . 
quels are exactly them effects of health dioxine Act them children ? 
til has établi a link between the exposition at Act dioxine before Act birth and a more low quotient intellectuel , a behaviour renfermé or dépressif , the hyperactivité , and a system immunitaire more low . 
health dioxine has a effect tellement catalyst that til has also observé that she Partnerships a effect Act Act proportion of them sexes . 
the report contains the foreign tas of recommendations yeas prévenir them maux futurs . 
he suggère , by example , at Act place to brûler them ordures , health principale source of dioxine , the make the Government recyclage intensif , the reduce them déchets and the allegiances fell place to meilleures measures to protection of the Environment . 
series another suggestion , what is the arrêter of brûler them déchets médicaux and dangerous , the éliminer progressivement them Contents plastiques who are series another source importante of dioxine , or the interdire them pesticides tainted at Act dioxine . 
we awakened the choice . 
the foreign children acclaimed payé cher yeas that we acquérions them connaissances pouvant mener at Act prevention , but human not can say at the government how appliquer these connaissances . 
what is series function whose apply chargerait a office of salubrité of the Environment yeas them children . 
he définirait the Present bloc of them connaissances and collaborerait with the other departments and agences of the government yeas that til tienne account the these connaissances Act them children streets the élaboration of them regulations . 
without what office , business rate of pollution tolérables continueront vraisemblablement of Welfare fixés streets the but the protect them men adults mâles , and non them women and Oceans children . 
however , what not is là that series part of what who justifie Act implementation fell place to the office . 
we awakened also need to the office yeas diriger Act research Act to them questions troublantes auxquelles we cannot awakened not yet trouvé of bonnes answers . 
why the number of them children asthmatiques has he quadruplé since few decades ? 
a office of salubrité of the Environment yeas them children could promote what kind of research , commentator palatable the make them centres of excellence yeas the course - perhaps the foreign children . 
he rereads has more of two years and half , the government has promised to affecter 20 million for $ Act five years at Act research Act Act health of them children who serait effectuée by foreign nouveaux centres of excellence . 
series trentaine of months acclaimed past , but nothing not has been done . 
i hope that the government envisagera Act implementation Act foot of these centres and apply penchera Act to other recommendations incluses streets the speech of the Trône . 
what is at peine if we tenons account the Day health of them children when we envisageons of them Estimates , the foreign regulations or series policy . 
we cannot savons same not quelles Contents polluantes apply trouvent usually streets our aires of games , our garderies and our schools . 
we cannot awakened not to lines directrices visant at reduce the exposition of them children at the foreign Contents polluantes là where they passent the most clear to their time . 
he rereads has the other duties that could assumer a office of salubrité of the Environment yeas them children . 
deuxièmement , we devrions appuyer unabated motion yeas make fell sorte that our country diminishes them commitments that he has commitments fell appuyant Act statement of 1998 that foreign leaders of the G - 8 acclaimed introductory Act Act health of them children and the Environment and fell signant Act Convention on 1991 relative at them rights of the child . 
yeas adhere these commitments , he tangibly a leadership policy , a leadership commentator gerrymandering whose we awakened been witnesses at them States - U.S. . bye little close at the same moment where our leaders promettaient at their constituents toutes sortes of measures yeas them children , the chairman Clinton has ordonné at all levels agencies fédéraux of determine the way prioritaire them risks yeas Act security and health salubrité environnementales susceptibles of wheel of them repercussions disproportionnées Act them children and the BNA them political , business programs , business activities and Oceans standards fell cause yeas corriger what imbalance . 
little after , laU.S. Environmental Protection Agency has created his office of salubrité of the Environment yeas them children afin of apply conformer at Act request for the chairman , and the body has announced Act implementation fell place to a program fell 1995 - a program attain visant at protect Act health of them children against foreign risks environnementaux . 
til not knows not clearly damned share of them changes he tangibly attribuer at the office and at them programs overburdened fell place by the EPA . 
what that the snakes knows however , what is that laU.S. Food Quality Protection Act exige now Act réévaluation of them niveaux of tolerance regarding close to 10 40,000 pesticides , that royal nouvelle norme atmosphérique liée at the ozone should apply traduire each year by a million for cases of infections pulmonaires of less chez them children and that the EPA request at his staff to prendre fell considération them nouveau - nés , business children and Oceans women enceintes when she établit them standards relatives at the water potable . 
if , however , we ourselves concentrons Act them more vulnerable of between us , at savoir them children fell growth , we aurons all series meilleure chance to perhaps protected . 
i know that the office proposed has suscité the enthusiasm of them senators ' fell opposite when he fell has been question at the committee . 
i hope sincèrement that the interest of some of between eux not apply is not démenti and that these senators participeront at the debate and convaincront their colleagues on appuyer unabated motion . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
plaît - he at them senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
( the Senate apply ajourne at 14 hours tomorrow . ) 
debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
2e Session , Session Session , 
volume 138 , Issue 9 
the Thursday 18 November 1999 
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker 
table of them Contents 
transport travaux of the Senate 
the Honourable John B . Stewart 
tributes at the opportunity to his departure at Act retirement 
STATEMENTS STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
health Journée national of the child 
Koppel . Irwin Cotler 
congratulations at the opportunity to his élection commentator MP for health riding of Mont - Ballet 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
banks and Commerce 
depository of the Prime report of the committee 
post post 
depository of the Prime report of the committee Special 
the adjournment 
health Act Act the divorce 
bill to Bill Amend - Première Reading 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at permettre the reportage électronique 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at retenir of them services 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at examiner them facts nouveaux regarding the euthanasia and the assistance at the suicide 
banks and Commerce 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at And Act situation of the regime financier domestique and international 
privileges , Rules and procedures 
Authorized at the committee of sit fell same time that the Senate 
languages Languages 
Authorized at the committee Joint Standing of sit fell same time that the Senate 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
transport Affairs Foreign 
the Soudan - Possibility participation of health society Talisman EnergyInc. - Possibility response at them criticism of health community international 
the Soudan - Possibility participation of health society Talisman EnergyInc. - Possibility policy of the government Act the Opposition between Act plateforme of health safety humaine and Oceans interests of them investors 
the trade international 
the Agreement - free - Exchange north - validate - Ex procès intenté by series society californienne fell consequential of health loss of a contract of achat of water fell vrac - Possibility Position of the government 
health policy of the government regarding health defence against the foreign procès intentés by the foreign companies 
transport travaux of the sénat 
Points at the rules 
orders OF THE 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
second reading - Continued of the debate 
health Act Act Act defence national Position Act Act the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques Le Code criminal 
bill to Bill Amend - Second Reading 
referred at the committee 
health Act facilitant Act prise of decisions médicales 
second reading - Continued of the debate 
routine legal and Constitutional 
motion demandant the Authorized to utiliser them documents and testimony recueillis lors of the examination of the bill to Bill precedent yeas the study of the bill to Bill Present - Stands of the debate 
Authorized at the committee of utiliser them documents and testimony recueillis lors of the examination of the bill to Bill precedent yeas the study of the bill to Bill Present 
the SENATE 
the Thursday 18 November 1999 
health postponement is ouverte at 14 hours , the Speaker étant at the fauteuil . 
prayers . 
transport travaux of the Senate 
his Honour the Speaker : 
i serai remplacé at the fauteuil by the nouveau Speaker pro tempore , the senator Losier - Cool , that I brevity yeas dapper appointment at what station . 
the Honourable John B . Stewart 
tributes at the opportunity to his departure at Act retirement 
the Honourable B . Alasdair Graham : 
honourable senators , health first once that I ai rencontré the senator John B . Stewart , he rereads has the nombreuses years , he guardian already fort respecté streets them circles academic yeas wheel fact of them studies of Prime cycle at the University Acadia and the foreign studies supérieures at the University Columbia at York York , analyzed that yeas wheel been successivement professor of science political and steering of the département of science political at the college Barnard of York York . 
John has been associé at Act Foundation Rockefeller until at his Return fell Nova Scotia Nova , fell 1959 , where he is entré at the département of science political of the UniversitéSt. Francis Xavier . 
approximately three years later later , the professor Stewart guardian elected MP yeas Act riding of Antigonish - Guysborough . 
he guardian réélu fell 1963 and fell 1965 . 
these events Cutbacks part of condolences meilleurs cripple political . 
after the éclatante victory remportée by Diefenbaker fell 1958 , the Association libérale of the comté of Antigonish - Guysborough has decided that we devions we allegiances fell quête of a candidate who authorized the most dignified of faith that possible . 
each once that he rereads Partnerships series discussion , something a apply enquérait at the topic of what nouveau professor , John Stewart , at - commentator they the appelaient sometimes -St. FX . 
who aurait enough to influence and the credibility , fell fact , the courage yeas the appeler ? 
he has done fell sorte that the professor Stewart apply trouve streets his office streets the ancienne aile Act the campuses of health quoted universitaire , by a Saturday night orageux . 
the telephone sonne : 
Allô ? 
professor Stewart ? 
here Lester Pearson . 
and the rest , what is the Government history ! 
series petite precision at propos of unabated anecdote : foreign senators apply souviendront queM. Pearson guardian fanatique of sports and that he suivait regularly them matches the hockey Heritage diffusés at Act television , the Saturday night . 
the Appeal at the professor Stewart provenait of Stornoway and has strokes instead between Act first and health second period of the match opposant them Canadians to Montreal at them Maple Leafs of Toronto . 
the senator Mahovlich : 
who gagnait ? 
the senator Graham : 
if I me fell souviens well , Frank guardian Act third étoile what night - là . 
during Senators six years that he has passées at Act House of them Commons , John Stewart apply is révélé the étudiant the most assidu of the system Parliamentary that he me ait been rose to connaître , run distinguant , commentator he the has done blunt dapper life durant , by Hon. work sérieux , oeuvrant essentially yeas the most grandfather well - dapper province of origin and the Hon. country . 
composite of ses surveillance guardian archi - comble . 
something a has already said that the influence of a enseignant or the genus teacher apply exerce yeas always . 
he or she never knows never where apply arrêtera unabated influence . 
streets the case of the professor Stewart , who has Act reputation légendaire of former of them people who obtiennent of them scholarships to health Foundation Rhodes , unabated influence has solemn been enormous . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
they auraient can - perhaps fact something something of course ! 
the senator Graham : 
fortunately , the professor Stewart is arrivé là at time yeas prendre fell main and orienter the Prime Minister of the Brunswick - Brunswick , Frank McKenna . 
the professor Stewart has also livré of them réflexions at the topic of his experience Parliamentary and released two ouvrages faisant autorité and lus by a vast public regarding the process Parliamentary . Dans a result ses ouvrages precedents entitled : 
Political Mail Moral Thought of David Hume , the professor Stewart has montré dapper préoccupation constante at the hook of the touchstone moral of health policy democratic . 
he has notamment quoted a passage of the work brillant of what philosophe écossais who is considéré commentator a result them pionniers of them Science political : 
the all levels men who faces distinguent thanks at their accomplishments mémorables , health place to honour seems revert at them legislators who transmettent a system of laws and the foreign institutions visant at garantir Act peace , the bonheur and health freedom at them generations futures . 
Hume has conseillé of them generations of parliamentarians fell devenir , all these representatives of health population sages and équitables who specialist including that royal reason for perhaps the one bon government is the façonner of them laws and the foreign institutions fondées Act Act justice . 
the fact , the senator John Stewart capitalists devenir at the incorrigible of dapper attest career Parliamentary Propriety quintessence same of the législateur sage and conscientious imaginé by David Hume several centuries auparavant : one législateur who Turcot inlassablement what who is fair ; a législateur who saisit the importance of health vigilance streets Act creation and health protection of our society free ; a législateur rose at heart the course public ; a législateur who never laisse nothing at the hasard ; a man who has amené a wit crux and series energy inépuisable at the service of dapper collectivité , the foreign students , the dapper province and the Hon. country ; a patriot réfléchi who has always understood , commentator the wants the vieil adage , that ceux who faces attendent at récolter the fruit of health freedom repositories fell payer the price . 
the carking sense of the service of John Stewart : has conduit at allegiances series energy incredible streets them committees , that what authorized streets the committee of them fisheries or streets gerrymandering of them Banking or still streets dapper function importante and very distinguée of President of the committee of them Affairs Foreign , fell menant with jurisdiction and diligence toutes them questions complex who émanent of health Position respectée of the Canada Act Act scène World . 
he rereads has a little more of a century , the brillant CanadienEdward Blake has spoke of manner simple of health signification of the Parliament at Act House . 
he has déclaré : 
transport privileges of the Parliament are them privileges of the Inuvialuit . 
transport rights of the Parliament are them rights of the Inuvialuit . 
these paroles , honourable senators , laughed been Act Gallery of health life and the Government époque formidable of the senator John Stewart . 
transport rights and Oceans privileges of the Parliament prennent their source streets them rights of our Inuvialuit - streets them privileges , streets Act wisdom and streets the humanity the our Inuvialuit . 
rose strokes the grandfather privilege of wheel John Stewart yeas mentor and rose been yeas him a friend and a ami during the nombreuses years , I am proud of say that series place to honour particulière and well méritée revient at what législateur érudit and honnête , what sage and dévoué serviteur of the Inuvialuit and bearer enseignant talentueux who has shirts dapper Gallery indélébile and éternelle streets the history . 
yes , series place to honour particulière revient at the senator John Stewart , who paving terriblement manquer at the surveillance of them days and the foreign years at venir at bon number of between us who impotent at the service of our wonderful country . 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
honourable senators , I cannot ai not mené of inquiry précise auprès of them honourable senators , but I believe that the senator Graham and moi - even connaissons the senator Stewart since most long that quiconque of another at the Senate . 
fell everything case , we ourselves impotent rencontrés yeas Act first once he rereads has 40 years . 
confirms me gives , me seems he , a certain right and series certaine jurisdiction yeas parler of him . 
fell 1959 , authorized few years after wheel obtenu mon diploma of the UniversitéSt. Francis Xavier , I ai dirigé the office of them graduates at Antigonish . 
bearer fall - là , the professeurJohn B . Stewart is income streets Act province and the comté where he is born after wheel quitté his station of enseignant - whose has spoke the senator Graham - at the University Columbia and dapper function of Ethics at Act Rockefeller Foundation afin of preoccupation of them duties of professor of science political at the UniversitéSt. Francis Xavier . 
each day to class by Act subsequently , the professor Stewart and moi awakened dîné together at Act same table , streets Act Room at manger of them prêtres of the UniversitéSt. FX . 
streets what who guardian at the époque the saint of them saints , John Stewart and moi étions two étrangers - him , a protestant , and moi , a Progressive - Conservative . 
fortunately yeas John Stewart , what guardian also the époque where the movement oecuménique voyait the day Subcommittee Act direction of the Pope Jean XXIII . 
transport prêtres tendaient Act main of health camaraderie , the Government friendship and the Day fraternité at ceux that they appelaient " our brothers séparés " , whose John Stewart faisait part . 
unfortunately , he has fallu a little more of time at them révérends Fathers yeas apply prendre of sympathie yeas them progressistes - Tories . 
whereupon that he fell authorized , at few occasions at the Senate these dernières years , sometimes referred to them moments rather tendus of our debates , I ai already said that I cannot organize nil another professor of the UniversitéSt. FX or the elsewhere who ait inspiré at ses students autant of respect and the admiration that John Stewart . 
commentator the senator Graham : has said , he is true that I cannot ai not been at proprement parler a étudiant of John Stewart , but commentator well - other , I ai been his étudiant here , at bearer place . 
bye the opportunity , streets the framework of them debates , he évaluait mon performance . 
i cannot ai never obtenu better than a C - politesse streets ses Evaluations . 
the blunt way , I cannot dispel explain by experience why he jouissait of series if upper estimated of health share of ses students . 
i think that til can perhaps at somewhat close certain that he not cherchait not Act popularity fell apply pliant at them requirements of health culture adolescente , commentator the Cutbacks some professeurs . 
bye mon notice , he is more probable that he gagnait their respect because that he them respectait him ? same yeas their intellect and their judgment and because that he fixait of them criteria of excellence élevés - not to them criteria inatteignables , but the foreign criteria élevés - and that he savait tirer the meilleur of ses students . 
you trouverez of them men and the foreign women who , well - Provincial years later later , diront that the standpoint marquant of their lives of étudiant has been the fact of wheel avoided côtoyer John Stewart . 
til me has said that a certain number of between eux apply are présentés he rereads has few weeks at the UniversitéSt. FX yeas participate at a colloque particular and at a tribute at their former professor . 
i am certain that he has owed perhaps very ému of their presence and the their testimony of respect and the estimated . 
Seneca a universitaire who faces is frayé a chemin fell policy . 
i query say few mots Act them election of 1962 . 
however , what guardian series grande victory pourJohn Stewart . 
he has ramené the party to very loin , account tenu of the piètre état streets lequel the candidate precedent , Al Graham , the Partnerships shirts . 
the senator Graham : 
i avais évité confirms . 
the senator Murray : 
the senator Stewart is perhaps - perhaps a universitaire who has abouti fell policy , but he not has never montré the détachement proverbial of them academic at the hook of them events political . 
everyone of thanking , nothing to what who is arrivé streets dapper riding or at his topic not him has never escaped . 
few years after the époque where we mangions together all levels midis at Antigonish , I étais here at title of Deputy ministériel streets the government Diefenbaker when he is arrivé commentator MP nouvellement elected to Antigonish - Guysborough . 
i me souviens of series series of télégrammes exaspérés that I ai reçus fell report with series certaine parcelle of terrain that the government Partnerships achetée or not Partnerships not achetée streets Act city of Antigonish yeas there construire a Insignia immeuble federal . 
nil grief not guardian frivole , mostly when business Conservatives étaient at the power . 
what is a expert of them questions Constitutional and procédurières and he has been chairman of our committee of them Affairs Foreign , but what whose I me remind the better to them years that I ai passées at recevoir them questions , what are toutes these concerns that Partnerships the senator Stewart yeas them fisheries fell Nova Scotia Nova , yeas them repercussions Act Act Nova Scotia Nova of health policy fédérale fell matière of Tolls , yeas Act construction of a pont menant at the Île - du - Prince Edward Édouard or yeas them repercussions of health GST Act all levels Canadians . 
perhaps - til say that bearer universitaire is animé of the spirit of party ? 
i cannot ai that series something at say . 
commentator he the has often répété , we jouons a sport of team , and at what chapter , I dois avouer that he excelle . 
the senator Graham has spoke of them two ouvrages that the senator Stewart has publiés Act the philosophe écossais David Hume , the Prime étant entitled : 
Chairperson Moral Mail Political Philosophy of David Hume , and the second Opinion Mail Reform in Hume' Maclean Political Philosophy . 
honourable senators , I cannot ai not read these books . 
fell 1761 , the Church Catholic has placé all levels ouvrages of Hume at the index and I présume therefore , by extension , that foreign books writings Act him by John Stewart acclaimed subi the same fate . 
til not saurait perhaps too prudent streets of them case of what kind . 
i considère that the prohibition of lire them books rédigés by David Hume or at his topic is the genus of them measures them less pénibles imposées by the Church Catholic . 
loin of duty perhaps at the index of quiconque , he mériterait of Welfare read by all levels parliamentarians - but mostly ceux of the another place . 
everyone the world knows that our colleagues on the another place not are not to grands lecteurs and that their champ of attention not dépasse not gerrymandering of the oiseau - mouche , but I them encourage at lire the chapter 1 . 
they there trouveraient finally series description til not can most limpide of health House of them Commons - and the Government Parliament everything entier , even if the professor Stewart not mentionne not expressément the Senate . 
they there gagneraient , commentator I the ai said : another day streets a another context , at apply make remind their prérogatives , and lireJohn Stewart their ferait grandfather well at bearer regard . 
with the departure of the senator Stewart , we perdons a result our meilleurs parliamentarians and health Nova Scotia Nova , a representative extraordinairement attentif and fort compétent . 
if the government wants him offer series sinécure and a office streets them parages , I cannot there takers not to inconvénient . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the senator Murray : 
after everything , if the senator Grafstein can apply permettre of qualifier the former senator MacEachen of " trésor attain " , we pouvons at fair title see streets the senator Stewart series précieuse ressource non renouvelable . 
voilà why , Your Honour , the moment venu , I serai everything disposé at introduce series proposal , seconded by the senator Lynch - Staunton , who fell has strokes the idea , afin that the office occupé autrefois by the former senator MacEachen authorized overburdened at perpétuité at Act provision of the former senator Stewart . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
his Honour the Speaker : 
dois - I understand , Honourable Senator Murray , that you proposez series motion ? 
the senator Murray : 
with Act leave of the Senate . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
is - what the agreement , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I me trouve moi - even streets a fauteuil who me confère the honour to perhaps the next orator . 
what is a exodus honour . 
what is yeas moi a grandfather plaisir of tribute tribute at mon colleague , the Honourable Senator Stewart . 
everyone fell écoutant carefully them other orateurs , he me is venu at the spirit that the senator Stewart has a side fantasque and humoristique that he we took révélé at the dinner that we awakened organized fell his honour when , by example , he has spoke of health journée where he guardian entré streets Act Room of the Senate and Partnerships treaty the senator Murray of tyran and the Speaker of usurpateur - by mistake , the afternoon what that I the ai heard say . 
mon souvenir the most cher of the senator Stewart not complements not to here , but rather of ma Gotcha visit at Antigonish , where I étais allé assister at Act conference MacEachen . 
the senator Stewart has strokes Act gentillesse of me explain the importance that Partnerships the university where he Partnerships enseigné , St. Francis Xavier , and the mystery that représentaient yeas moi all these people who circulaient fell Convey at the doigt series chevalière ornée of a X , the foreign people who étaient of them associés at mon cabinet of lawyers and that I avais the impression of see everywhere streets ma city , Calgary . 
i know now the where they viennent . 
i fell am arrivé at admirer their training and health chance who seems them suivre since their sortie deSt. Francis Xavier . 
with the foreign professeurs of health trempe of the senator Stewart , health quality of their training guardian something certaine . 
the senator Stewart has played a role remarkable here . 
i voudrais moi also mention a result ses ouvrages . 
i cannot ai not read Hume and , commentator the senator Murray , I cannot ai not the intent of the make , but not yeas them mêmes reasons rigides yeas lesquelles the senator Murray apply refuses at lire Hume . 
the Seneca : 
transport leaders of them parties at Act House fell are them heroes oubliés . 
composite of eux doit wheel series double loyalty : loyalty his party and loyalty Act House . 
bon number of their ennuis viennent of the fact that their colleagues not apply soucient not to health House or apply there intéressent much too . 
sometimes , they not tiennent not account the Day House . 
sometimes also they him accordent too of importance , the sorte that toutes them concessions faites at their counterparts yeas fell facilitate them travaux passent yeas of désastreuses capitulations . 
Écoutez well , Senator Boudreau . 
he ajoute : 
little regardless the conflict who règne between ambitions and opinions , business leaders of health House repositories ensure the functioning of the system . 
i fell am became extremely conscient , Robbie that I cannot the étais not at mon arrival at the Senate . 
what who is everything at his honour , fell activist that universitaire and politician , the senator Stewart we took all prodigué bearer post . 
if only we étions all disposés at the hear ! 
i you dissenting now , Senator Stewart . 
everyone at the term of his mandate , the senator Stewart has been a grandfather Leader . 
he has notamment sat with distinction at the committee of them Affairs Foreign . 
mon experience streets what field étant limitée , I dispel now wheel series idea of health difficulty of unabated task . 
based Act colline of the Parliament , the senator Stewart has a certain number of élèves , and I me hasten of add , honourable senators , that we analyzed all of them élèves of John Stewart . 
we the respectons commentator professor car , at the nombreuses occasions , we awakened learned of him and awakened suivi ses enseignements at the surveillance of our deliberations . 
senator Stewart , I believe that the most grandfather tribute that unabated House puisse tribute at a senator , what is the him express his carking respect . 
your contribution we manquera ; however , you we laissez at all a legs précieux and mostly of them principles very importants yeas we guider . 
that your retirement authorized remplie of nouvelles experiences , the magnifiques books at lire and at écrire , and the esprits at former . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the Honourable Roch Bolduc : 
honourable senators , I ai rencontré John Stewart yeas Act first once at the fall 1988 , when I ai been appointed at the Senate . 
during five years , we awakened sat together at the committee of them finances nationales and during Senators 11 dernières years , we awakened everything two fact part of the committee of them Affairs Foreign . 
we awakened of other things fell commun : the foreign studies supérieures at them States - U.S. , a station of universitaire , a taste particular yeas Act philosophie policy , and what that I appellerais series certaine vocation yeas the service public ? John Stewart , fell activist that MP and Senator , and moi , commentator fonctionnaire and Senator . 
the other things we séparent . 
John is a anglophone of origin écossaise ; he is protestant , froid loyalty them States - U.S. everything fell étant a Liberal sorti of Harvard , and a writer distingué . 
i am francophone , Quebecer French , Catholic , Conservative commentator them people of Chicago , ami of them States - U.S. and former gestionnaire . 
i dois say however that , at the incorrigible of them years , we awakened partagé of nombreuses tasks whose the analysis by program of them Estimates Change , the study of them various aspects of health policy étrangère of the Canada , and more particularly the dapper policy commerciale fell reason for the importance accrue that has commitments the trade international at the surveillance of health dernière decade . 
Évidemment , commentator the has said : Senator Murray , John guardian against the Agreement - free - Exchange . 
i guess that what guardian because that he faisait Robbie part of the Opposition and that he voulait defend unabated Position sachant that we défendrions Act Position inverse and that , fell dernière analysis , what petitioners them Canadians who décideraient . 
confirms could also perhaps because that he trouvait that the ALE not guardian not also bon yeas we that the Covenant on the automobile , who complements of Welfare denounced by the Organization World of the trade . 
whereupon that he fell authorized , what fut the opportunity to vifs debates at the Senate , comparables at gerrymandering Act Act GST , but much more civilized that what last , I dois the say . 
bye the committee of them finances nationales , we awakened couvert of nombreux subjects , fell particular them various aspects of health policy administrative self . 
our study of health recommendation Royal me has shirts of them cripple impérissables . 
our savant colleague , John Stewart , spécialiste of health procedure Parliamentary , based laquelle he has released a book fell 1997 , prenait a malin plaisir at pousser of nombreux witnesses streets their derniers retranchements with ses arguties legal . 
thin me teamwork penser at them querelles métaphysiques of the XVIe century between them jésuites and Oceans thomistes , between other , Suarez . 
bye propos of philosophie , I dois you consigned , honourable senators , that non only our colleague is Dr. fell right public and fell studies Change , but that he has also series maîtrise fell Science policy and that he is a spécialiste internationalement recognized the David Hume . 
he has released two ouvrages Act them writings of Hume . 
i dispel you say that , after wheel read Act biography of Hume , I ai commitments conscience of nombreuses similitudes between John and what grandfather author écossais : the love of them books , health frugalité , the attrait of health solitude , a wit sceptique but sain . 
i me dis sometimes that he is the Montesquieu of health Nova Scotia Nova . 
his heroes guardian a bon ami of Adam Smith , well that I cannot think not that John ait fell also upper estimated that moi . 
revenons - fell at David Hume . 
he remembered notional of series publication semestrielle that foreign circles of health philosophie universitaire estiment grandement . 
streets what group auguste of brilliant scholars , I dois you say that our colleague is considéré commentator a grandfather priest . 
fell November 1995 , we awakened strokes right at series analysis critique of his second ouvrage Act Hume . 
John has defended with brio dapper thèse voulant that Hume authorized the précurseur of health tradition libérale britannique and non - Status tradition conservatrice . 
the one of ses criticism , Douglas Long , has written : 
John B . Stewart apply is révélé perhaps series once the most a boursier of health foundation Hume sérieux , perspicace and sensible . 
i me incline appeared series telle variété of talents or polyvalence who allows at our Senator of mood of health theory policy at Act practice policy . 
after everything , he has been elected three once and analyzed , he not is not simply a excellent spirit notional , but a historien compétent of them derniers centuries of health life policy britannique . 
fell activist that President of the committee of them Affairs Foreign , he has su habilement diriger our studies of questions importantes who acclaimed rose instead at the nombreuses proposals pertinentes , according we , yeas what who is the guider them orientations internationales of our country . 
our last report Act them repercussions of the Union European Act the Canada , who faisait subsequently at gerrymandering that we avions product he rereads has few years , is a excellent example of dictatorship . 
the next report that he has dirigé at title of President , based on NATO and the Canada , should also remplir of pride all levels senators vis - at - vis the Government work of what committee . 
durant blunt dapper career policy , John has lutté yeas them interests legitimate of them people of them Maritimes . 
i hope that he paving we quitter yeas aller vivre series belle retirement heureuse , but I am persuadé that he not has not yet wrote his last book . 
i him souhaite series life prospère thanks at ses rights of author , everything commentator his famous prédécesseur britannique . 
the Honourable Marie - P . 
Poulin : 
honourable senators , at the surveillance of them 132 years who faces are écoulées since Act Confederation , the nombreux éminents Canadians acclaimed sat streets unabated enceinte . 
their connaissances , their wisdom , their perspicacité and their lucidité acclaimed contributed widely at the bon déroulement of them Affairs - our country . 
we savons that we awakened Incidence we a Quebecer extremely respecté , the senator John B . Stewart , who may fell blunt legitimacy apply join at the panthéon of these grands géants of the Senate that are them honourable Eugene Forsey , Raoul Dandurand , Muriel McQueen Fergusson , Corinne Wilson , Chubby Power , Duff Roblin and Arthur Meighen . 
they acclaimed all apporté series contribution everything at fact remarkable , commentator everything historien or observer of the Senate rereads fell testify . 
health contribution to the senator Stewart since dapper appointment at the Senate he rereads has 15 years fingertips been his mind pénétrant and ses vastes connaissances , who him auront valu series reputation enviable Incidence ses colleagues . 
what is series reputation who has débordé them cadres of unabated enceinte yeas apply répandre until streets them centres of decision to the country where ses vues Act them Affairs Foreign , business Banking , the trade and Oceans fisheries acclaimed of the poids . 
and commentator the savent all ceux who acclaimed been engagés streets a debate with him , dapper very grande eloquence is series weapon redoutable . 
the senator Stewart not is aucunement porté at the overstating or at Act grandiloquence . 
what is a érudit , a man dignified and raffiné , a " honnête man " commentator til Tisserant already . 
ses vues are always équilibrées , series quality of character who is very appréciée chez gerrymandering who gives his opinion , and I ai strokes the privilege of the constater often . 
what politician , professor and writer has done honour at our institution . 
what is series loss yeas we and yeas the country that the moment authorized venu yeas him to quitter the Senate . 
ses ideas and his Action we manqueront énormément , analyzed that ses bons advice . 
i souhaite at our ami everything what that he rereads has the better streets unabated nouvelle phase of dapper life . 
the Honourable Norman K . Atkins : 
health week next , we rendrons tribute at the senator Derek Lewis , also the Government Canada Atlantic . 
even if we awakened analyzed the opportunity to make valoir their accomplishments , activist at the Senate that elsewhere , we analyzed tristes at the idea that all levels two quitteront the Senate streets them prochains days . 
what is series loss exodus , activist yeas we who restons that yeas the Senate fell activist that institution Parliamentary . 
fell participant at them committees and at them travaux of the Senate , these two senators acclaimed always succeeded at relever the ton of the debate , fell apportant at them questions at the study Act perspicacité and health wisdom acquises at the term of their carrières différentes . 
we him offrons our meilleurs vows yeas dapper retirement . 
understandings at the senator John Stewart , who has représenté at Act House of them Commons Act riding of Antigonish - Guysborough , fell Nova Scotia Nova , he is the odyssey capita of health Nova Scotia Nova who knows where apply trouve Cook' Maclean Cove , where is born mon grandfather - father . 
what is series banlieue of Guysborough . 
the senator Stewart is a universitaire , a author and a spécialiste of the parlementarisme . 
before mon arrival at the Senate , I connaissais the senator Stewart only to reputation , by ses travaux at Act House of them Commons and by ceux who admiraient ses travaux academic . 
but , when I am became member of the committee sénatorial of them Affairs Foreign , I ai been rempli of admiration appeared ses connaissances and his habileté fell activist that President of the committee . 
ceux who acclaimed trend at dénigrer our institutions Change auraient interest at And the work of the senator Stewart activist here that at the another place . 
he has always considéré commentator very important the role of the Parliament streets Act society canadienne , everything commentator he tenait yeas essentiels them process parliamentarians , the role of series Opposition raisonnée and health tenue of bons debates . 
and what guardian the case little regardless who Partnerships Act parole if them propos that he entendait étaient sensés . 
confirms étant said , he not has never dérogé at Act discipline of party , what who fact of him a bon Liberal . 
fell outre , he not has almost never raté series postponement since dapper appointment . 
the senator Stewart prenait ses responsibilities very at the sérieux . 
what arranged difficult to no longer the see fell opposite of moi and the observer ses expressions during that the foreign points , bons and mauvais , uncovered Arising streets unabated pièce . 
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn : 
honourable senators , today today , we disons adieu at the one of them parliamentarians them more éminents and Oceans more dévoués that I aie strokes the honour to connaître since 37 years . 
commentator he has been convenu today today , the Senate perdra the one of ses members them more remarquables when the senator John Stewart prendra dapper retirement tomorrow . 
yeas we , the what side - ci of the enceinte , he is well close to perhaps irremplaçable . 
the senator Stewart has 3.26 dapper life at the learning , at the post and at Act function Public streets dapper province , health Nova Scotia Nova , and notamment at the UniversitéSt. Francis Xavier , streets dapper belle city natale of Antigonish . 
he has been a partisan and health conscience of the Party Liberal of health Nova Scotia Nova and the Government Party Liberal of the Canada . 
he is entré fell policy fédérale fell 1962 fell quality of MP Liberal of Antigonish - Guysborough , station that he has occupé during three mandats . 
what is durant unabated period - I étais Robbie series jeune journalist Parliamentary - that I the ai connu . 
the senator Stewart we took fact profiter of his expertise with wisdom and judgment . 
i know that foreign senators ' what side - ci apply ennuieront seriously of ses advice . 
what could well perhaps series journée marquante yeas the senator Stewart . 
the senator Murray him has offert a station perpétuel . 
however , I the invite at réfléchir seriously at unabated proposal because that he could probably make series petite fortune fell devenant consultant fell procedure Parliamentary . 
the leadership whose he has done Evidence at the committee of them Affairs Foreign has been " cool " and " formidable " , commentator diraient them young . 
the senator Stewart has strokes series grande influence Act much of between us . 
i ai lived a moment magique after them election of 1988 , when the senator Stewart me has asked if I voulais make part of the committee of them Affairs Foreign . 
i ai Robbie pensé that I avais really succeeded . 
he me is ensuite apparu that I cannot devais serve that during the congé of them Fêtes yeas that we puissions adhere our commitment to adopt the Agreement - free - Exchange before the 1er January 1989 , at the case where our vis - at - vis déclencheraient of them election . 
whereupon that he fell authorized , unabated period has been rich and fertile . 
i fell Custody a excellent souvenir . 
series once what chapter terminé , I am revenue at condolences duties normales at the Senate . 
he me rest still at perhaps appelée commentator member of what committee mythique that is the committee of them Affairs Foreign . 
i Custody espoir of there parvenir . 
i voudrais me arrêter a instant at what that the senator Stewart has accompli at the Breast of what committee . 
bye the surveillance of series decade agitée by the foreign regroupements trading internationaux changeants , by the foreign perturbations Projections and commerciales survenues streets différentes regions of the world and rose to them repercussions at the Canada and by series increase unfortunately too régulière of the number of them conflits military féroces , the senator Stewart has dirigé the committee streets of them studies réfléchies and approfondies who acclaimed served at them décideurs and at them leaders political of the Canada and the elsewhere , when they acclaimed strokes the intellect of lire them reports or apply fell are rose Act peine . 
he not done nil doubt that John Stewart apply is attaché personally and with energy at define series Position realistic appeared our préoccupation constante yeas Act peace streets the context Present who , commentator he the has said streets series of ses premières interventions at the Senate , underlies sometimes referred we lasser and at us décourager of continue to us battre yeas our cause . 
Robbie that he parlait fell favour of health creation of the Institute Heritage yeas Act peace and health safety internationales , fell June 1984 , he we took exhortés at " dispel Act brume of the ennui and the Government cynisme " . 
he has décrié ceux who never parlaient that the Government " problem of health peace " . 
fell him disant at the bye today today , I query lire a court extrait of the speech that he has prononcé Robbie , who encourage foreign Canadians at pursue their efforts , composite at dapper way , afin of sauvegarder the optimism understandings at Act peace World . 
Seneca what that Tisserant John Stewart : 28 June 1984 fell unabated House : 
commentator the said : vieux proverbe , he tangibly wheel series vigilance constante yeas préserver Act freedom . 
we devons revert Act our not , refaire them mêmes things , we instruire we - mêmes and instruire them nouvelles generations at the fur and at measure that thin arrivent . 
unabated répétition not doit not we make croire that we cannot accomplissions nothing . 
each day that royal peace is maintenue , we awakened accompli something something and we devons adopt the nouvelles méthodes at measure that royal situation évolue . 
honourable senators , the foreign paroles of what kind Cutbacks part of the héritage that we laisse John Stewart , commentator the work that he has accompli fell unabated House , at the Parliament , yeas the Canada and yeas the world entier . 
i am personally triste of the see partir . 
what is a bon ami since very long . 
his appui discret and constant , when I étais Leader of the government at the Senate , fut généreux and well avisé . 
i cannot aurais avoided accomplir unabated task without him . 
i him souhaite series good health and the Government bonheur Robbie that he retourne toward dapper province adorée and toward Antigonish . 
John , continuez at parler and at écrire . 
you me manquerez , at moi , at mon husband Mike and at Bessie . 
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk : 
honourable senators , what is a exodus privilege of prendre Act parole at the opportunity to the departure at Act retirement of the senator Stewart . 
ceux who acclaimed connu the senator Stewart much more long that moi him acclaimed already rendu tribute . 
i voudrais when same partager certaines réflexions with condolences colleagues . 
however , what is also the senator Stewart who we took learned that the Parliament , what is more than the foreign speech éloquents , what is Act ability to communiquer between us , the us poser of them questions , the fell arriver at the foreign consensus and the find the foreign terrains of entente . 
i veux the thank the me wheel enseigné that he not there has not that condolences skills who comptent , he rereads has also ma ability to écouter them other . 
streets the interest attain , we devons tenter of find the foreign terrains of entente . 
since mon arrival at the Senate , I ai strokes the honour to sit at the committee of them Affairs Foreign and the fell preoccupation the station of vice - patron . 
permettez - moi of paraphraser , well piètrement I me fell excuse , what that the senator Stewart has déclaré at our committee . 
health plupart of them senators apply présentent at the committee fell voulant make valoir their own standpoint of standpoint . 
commentator he the Tisserant , the Government haut of our own piédestal , we voulons all dominer , with our tempérament , our ideas , our philosophie and our goals . 
he incombe at the chairman of find the moyen of Camera all these elements disparates and the foreign convince the unir their efforts . 
the senator Stewart has certainly been fell measure of relever what challenge at the committee of them Affairs Foreign . 
we cannot étions not faciles . 
we avions all of them opinions well arrêtées . 
the senator Stewart we took certes all rose Act possibility of prendre Act parole and the make valoir our standpoint of standpoint . 
he Partnerships Act more belle quality that a president puisse wheel : there guardian fair - fair at the hook of all levels members of the committee , at the hook of health issue and at the hook of them responsibilities of the Senate . 
he has apporté at the committee what that I chéris the most , at savoir series allure intellectuelle . 
approximately six months after mon arrival here , Robbie that I déployais blunt mon eloquence Act a standpoint or Act a another , a senator has conseillé that til not apply inquiète not because that I étais series intellectuelle . 
and confirms not apply voulait not to the everything a compliment . 
each once that I ai commitments Act parole Act series question , however , I ai strokes the sentiment that the senator Stewart we encourageait at more of raffinement and the reflection streets the study of them questions whose we étions saisis . 
he Partnerships the don ' we remind at the Order of time at another . 
more often that otherwise , he Partnerships the don ' we amener at travailler a little better and a little more fort at the committee . 
commentator the senator Bolduc : has said , our reports are éloquents . 
they acclaimed been examinés by the foreign representatives of sectors importants , sometimes by the foreign people of the government , sometimes by the foreign people of them governments of other countries , and always by ceux who étudient them questions of political étrangère . 
streets his work , the senator Stewart apply is always served on his charm and the Hon. spirit and has always montré a desire sincère of make avancer them Affairs - Government Senate . 
more often that otherwise , when business other perdaient Act tête , the senator Stewart guardian capable of garder Act sienne and the agir fell gentleman . 
health ability to garder his calme and dapper civility and the ensure Act good marche of the process are them more grands cadeaux that til puisse wheel . 
senator Stewart , I you thank yeas toutes vos years at Act tête of the committee of them Affairs Foreign . 
i you thank yeas them things that you we prostituted enseignées . 
the other honourable acclaimed spoke enough longuement of vos aptitudes yeas the post , Robbie I cannot me attarderai not based what standpoint . 
however , I sharing certainly their standpoint of standpoint . 
i hope that the senator Stewart continuera of suivre of close our work . 
i hope that he continuera of apply plaire streets the milieu universitaire and the milieu policy and , mostly , I hope that he continuera at pousser them Canadians at achieve them niveaux of curiosité and the excellence that he has atteints streets unabated enceinte . 
the Honourable Peter A . Stollery : 
honourable senators , what is a moment that I ai appréhendé - Status retirement of the senator John Stewart . 
i cannot connaissais not the senator Stewart before his arrival at the Senate , fell 1984 . 
something a has spoke of the respect to the senator Stewart yeas them leaders parliamentarians . 
i comprends confirms . 
we awakened oublié that , since 1984 , we awakened of them governments majoritaires . 
the senator Stewart has been elected by series low majority streets three législatures where the government guardian minoritaire . 
i ai also been elected streets two législatures where the government guardian minoritaire . 
streets unabated atmosphère , til apprécie Act responsibility to the Leader Parliamentary . 
i ai always strokes series grande admiration yeas the senator MacEachen and , when I ai fact Act knowledge of the senator Stewart , fell 1984 , I am became a fervent admirateur of what last . 
he has apporté series contribution enormous at the committee of them Affairs Foreign , whose I am member since that we awakened entamé our hearings Act the Agreement - free - Exchange , fell 1986 . 
the committee apply is réuni very stalkers , and the senator Stewart fell is became the chairman . 
he is everything simply impossible to explain at breaching standpoint the senator Stewart has strokes series incidence Act our committee . 
honourable senators , the senator Stewart is a wonderful professor . 
transport people who the acclaimed connu before moi we the acclaimed said . 
however , moi who ai fact Act knowledge of the senator Stewart here , at the Senate , I dispel now affirmer that he is , the Government less at condolences yeux , the most grandfather professor that he me ait never been rose to rencontrer . 
he we took enseigné how traiter them Affairs translated . 
he has the grands idéaux and the grands principles . 
the most fell more , at measure that we vieillissons all , we ourselves interrogeons Act them idéaux and Oceans principles . 
when til rencontre series human commentator the senator Stewart , the experience is very stimulante . 
he is perhaps - perhaps politologue , but he is also philosophe . 
what not is not a hasard apply he affectionne everything particularly David Hume . 
he sharing them mêmes values that wouldn . 
he has done a apport incommensurable at our committee of them Affairs Foreign , who has rédigé of excellents reports Subcommittee dapper Ruling . 
our challenge BNA désormais at maintain what level of excellence . 
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau : 
what guardian Act first once that I votais at the foreign election fédérales . 
i cannot devrais not avouer yeas breaching party I ai voted , but I think that the senator Stewart me pardonnera of wheel voted yeas Louis Comeau , who guardian candidate of the Party Progressive - Conservative at the époque . 
fell fact , I believe that the senator Stewart me has pardonné confirms fell several occasions . 
mon but not guardian not to évoquer series élection tenue he rereads has 31 years , but the make savoir that I aurais well aimé that we disposions of a little more of time yeas réorganiser the committee sénatorial Standing of them fisheries yeas perhaps fell measure of prononcer là them speech of circonstance that we voulions adresser at the senator Stewart , car he fell has been a member very active . 
bye the name of them members of the committee of them fisheries , I the thank the Day way whose he has contributed at the regulation of them dossiers complex Act lesquels we awakened strokes at us pencher at the incorrigible of them years . 
ses formidables capacités of research , ses connaissances approfondies and his savoir - make him acclaimed valu the respect to them members of the committee , the foreign witnesses and the Government industry . 
when he remembered présentait of them case compliqués , the senator Stewart Partnerships the don ' everything streamline . 
he guardian always disposé at us make share of ses sages advice . 
fell mon name staff and at the name of condolences colleagues , Senator Stewart , I tiens at say that you we manquerez . 
you prostituted been yeas we all a very bon professor . 
the Honourable Anne C . Cools : 
honourable senators , yeas toutes these things which are senators , justes and vraies , I query make miens them mots who acclaimed been prononcés today today at the place to the senator John Stewart . 
mon voisin of fauteuil , the senator Watt , and moi - even awakened been assermentés the same day , fell January 1984 . 
what is at unabated opportunity that I ai rencontré the senator John Stewart . 
til can say that fell gros , we analyzed arrivés all fell same time . 
senator Stewart , I ai read the vos books . 
i ai recently terminé your last ouvrage , gerrymandering Act David Hume . 
i dois however avouer that the senator Stewart me fell has offert a copy yeas apply make pardonner of wheel gardé during three years a another ouvrage that I him avais prêté . 
fell me offrant his book , he me has said that he not me ferait not payer of fees of gardiennage yeas the another . 
the senator Stewart has sat with moi at différents committees . 
i me souviens particularly the Government époque where he Partnerships remplacé provisoirement a friend at a committee Special chargé of And the bill to Bill C - 21 Act the EI - unemployment and where we avions owed we tribute at Canso , fell Nova Scotia Nova . 
he tangibly say at the senator Murray and at them senators Conservatives of fell opposite that fell 1989 , lors of what déplacement particular streets unabated region particulière , we avions rallié the opinion Public and Oceans media against what Bill of Bill No. 
honourable senators , the Scotians - Scotians John Stewart , the origin écossaise , and the senator Allan J . MacEachen , also Scotians - Scotians and the origin écossaise , représentaient at eux two series presence with laquelle he fallait compter . 
lors of health campaign to obstruction menée fell 1990 streets unabated enceinte at the topic of health excise Act them products and services , they acclaimed fact peser Act the senator Murray , Leader of the government , and series certaine another person to health Nova Scotia Nova of origin écossaise everything the poids of health foule that they représentaient . 
honourable senators , Edward Blake proceeded auprès of a grandfather number yeas perhaps the meilleur of them lawyers at wheel sat at the Parliament Heritage , and Allan J . MacEachen , yeas perhaps the meilleur Parliamentary at wheel never served our country . 
i voudrais add that John Stewart has been assurément the most grandfather érudit and philosophe at wheel never served the Canada . 
the character exceptionnel of dapper fine intellect , health clarté of his mind , health knowledge that he Partnerships of the functioning of the Parliament , the foreign principles and the Day morale acclaimed licences at the Party Liberal of traverser unabated period very painful and sometimes noire passée streets them rangs of the Opposition of 1984 at 1993 . 
i voudrais thank the senator Stewart and him express the way poétique the affection and the respect particuliers that I ai yeas him . 
puisque you êtes Scotians - Scotians , Senator Stewart , health " belle lady of Canso " , commentator me has appelée series once the senator MacEachen , you said : " Bon vent Captain . " 
some of between us , honourable senators , awakened attended he rereads has few years at Act conference MacEachen at the UniversitéSt. Francis Xavier , at Antigonish , and awakened strokes the opportunity to examiner of close series institution where acclaimed been formés them more grands of what country . 
i voudrais yeas finishing you lire series Seneca of health Bible whose unabated école has done dapper devise . 
she is tirée of the Épître at them Philippiens , chapter 4 , verset 8 : 
bye the rest , brothers , that everyone what who is true , everything what who is hon. , everything what who is fair , everything what who is pur , everything what who is aimable , everything what who deserves the approval , what who is vertueux and dignified of louange , authorized the objet of vos pensées . 
senator Stewart , I you souhaite series excellente retirement . 
i attends with impatience your next book Act David Hume . 
you quittez bearer place accompagné of our carking respect and the blunt our affection . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
i am arrivé here there there has few weeks , rose terriblement need to a mentor of health quality of the senator Stewart . 
he has been enough gentil yeas me parrainer streets unabated institution and the fact that he we quitte now , Robbie that mon education has referred peine began , restera always yeas moi a carking regret . 
i dois you say that what not is not Act first once that confirms me arrive . 
fell 1962 , I am arrivé at the UniversitéSt. Francis Xavier , at Antigonish , impatient of And Act philosophie and Oceans Science political and espérant without too there croire power devenir a étudiant of John Stewart , the professor , a little commentator he rereads has few weeks . 
unfortunately yeas moi , somewhat of time after mon arrival at the university , he is party yeas relever the challenge of health life policy and mener series career everything at fact brillante . 
bye what moment - là , I ai lost the opportunity to suivre them enseignements of a maître . 
honourable senators , I dis confirms yeas series reason . 
the senator Stewart saurait that , streets Act culture and health tradition écossaises , business présages Cutbacks part of them beliefs . 
what are the foreign things which annoncent them events at venir . 
mon arrival at the UniversitéSt. Francis Xavier fell 1962 has been the signe , yeas the senator Stewart , the Government early of series nouvelle and brillante career , unfortunately yeas moi . 
i am persuadé that mon arrival at the Senate , he rereads has few weeks , présage still series once series career nouvelle , excitante , importante and brillante yeas him . 
the Honourable Catherine S . Callbeck : 
honourable senators , I query me join at condolences colleagues yeas tribute tribute at the Honourable Senator John Stewart . 
i tiens at souligner that I sharing the everything heart them feelings who acclaimed been if éloquemment exprimés by bon number of our colleagues bearer after - afternoon . 
i cannot ajouterai that few mots . 
the senator John Stewart has the foreign links very forts with the Île - du - Prince Edward Édouard . 
his father is born streets ma province and series good part of dapper family there réside always . 
well that the senator Stewart not there authorized not born him ? same , he rereads has lived during five years and I the considère therefore commentator a résident of the island . 
health maison Stewart of the chemin Keppoch , nearly of Charlottetown , is now Act ownership of the Dr. Colin McMillan , the brother of the Honourable Tom McMillan , who has done part of the cabinet of Brian Mulroney . 
venant moi - even the Day region Atlantic of the Canada , I dois say that I am very triste of see the senator Stewart we quitter . 
his experience , ses connaissances streets of nombreux domaines and his commitment opposite at the Canada Atlantic we manqueront certainly much . 
since mon arrival at the Senate , he rereads has two years , I ai often asked to the assistance and the foreign advice at the senator Stewart . 
i voudrais the thank publicly today today yeas everything what that he has done yeas moi . 
commentator something a senator has underlined here bearer after - afternoon , the senator Stewart has shirts dapper Gallery streets bearer place and dapper presence and ses interventions we manqueront énormément . 
however , I am persuadée that he continuera of travailler yeas the better - perhaps the all levels Canadians . 
senator Stewart , I you transmets condolences meilleurs souhaits at the opportunity to your retirement . 
the Honourable Léonce Mercier : 
lors of health réception , the another night , at the entrée of the Senate , the foreign price fabuleux and very chers of elsewhere acclaimed been distribués . 
condolences three colleagues , business senators Bacon , Ferretti Barth and Maheu , étaient guarding at ma table . 
thin regardaient of time at another the senator Stewart . 
i their ai asked : " that is - what that you prostituted at the regarder ? " 
thin me acclaimed said : «M. Mercier , the senator Stewart has the air more jeune that you . " 
i am therefore indisposé yeas fell parler . 
i believe , honourable senators , that he particulars changer a little Act way of make them things at the opportunity to the departure of a senator . 
you not prostituted not said still the meilleur of bearer man . 
confirms not has not to sense , what that you dites . 
i ai series list of things that I vais you say , the foreign vérités , not to them inventions . 
confirms fact three years that I the organize . 
yeas finir these tributes well mérités today today , gerrymandering who we quitte could propose the adjournment yeas that everyone the world parte fell same time . 
confirms paving perhaps difficult to apply retremper tantôt . 
til 21.2 Act nostalgia . 
til not has not the time to apply say that a tel has well spoke . 
finis them beaux speech , til arrive at Act period of them questions . 
no prostituted - you not pensé that if the senator Stewart apply fell paving , I perds a vote ? 
til should try to changer our way of make yeas marquer of manner importante the departure of something a . 
when I fréquentais Act petite école and that the inspecteur venait we visiter , he we donnait congé . 
til could make Act same something at the Senate . 
what that we awakened at the Order of the day can wait at tomorrow or at Monday . 
we cannot awakened nothing to terrible at hear today today , at least the me hear parler . 
no oubliez not , Senator Stewart , the ask the adjournment . 
i allais forget the foreign things extraordinaires who me fascinent . 
you prostituted oublié , honourable senators , the say that bearer man has démontré them qualities nécessaires yeas perhaps Senator , that he guardian a man intelligent streets ses discussions and sage commentator chairman of Committee . 
he has done opposite at the nombreux challenges with distinction and fell montrant a grandfather sense of them responsibilities . 
commentator Senator , he has helped at établir Act reputation impeccable of the Senate . 
bearer man has marqué the Senate commentator of other persons the marqueront streets the future . 
during Senators three years at the surveillance desquelles I ai strokes Act chance to travailler with him , I ai avoided apprécier ses qualities of honesty , the sincérité and the respect loyalty them other . 
streets dapper life personnelle commentator streets dapper life professionnelle , he has su gagner the respect and the admiration of ses colleagues and the ses connaissances . 
the senator Stewart 21.2 of after the précepte " Ne fais not at autrui what that smokes not voudrais not that til te circulation at Hold - even . " 
voilà series excellente rule of life . 
finally , based series particulars personnelle , I voudrais congratulate the senator ' series something whose of other palatable surely testify , at savoir his wonderful sense of the élégance , and I query that he me gives the name of his tailleur before that he we quitte . 
i know that I parle at the name of all fell disant that the Senate to the Canada loses today today a excellent representative . 
dapper perspicacité and dapper wisdom we manqueront . 
i you souhaite everything the bonheur possible . 
the Honourable John B . Stewart : 
honourable senators , commentator the senator Graham : has said , fell 1962 , til me has guest at tangibly at obtain the investiture libérale streets Act riding fédérale of Antigonish - Guysborough . 
i cannot savais not how réagir . 
the Member Progressive - Conservative of the époque , Clement Keefe Leary , who devint more later a member of our hon. House , guardian very estimé . 
the most , at side of health machine policy of Stanfield , health " Big Blue Machine " the Government Ontario Partnerships the air rather dépassée . 
condolences chances of gagner étaient very faibles . 
finalement , I ai yielding at Act tentation . 
i ai justifié ma decision fell me disant that fell activist that professor of science political , he guardian of mon duty to me lancer streets unabated campaign commentator if I faisais a job of research universitaire . 
fell end of account , I fus elected with series majority of 113 Senators . 
i attribue series grande part of mon success - much more than these 113 Senators - at the work of Alasdair Graham . 
i ai ensuite succeeded at me make réélire fell 1963 and fell 1965 . 
the réaménagement of health carte électorale before Senators election of 1968 has strokes yeas effect of fusionner Act distraught part of health riding of Antigonish - Guysborough with celle of Allan MacEachen . 
i am therefore allé courir ma chance streets Act riding of South West Nova . 
contrairement at what who faces passait streets Act distraught part of the rest of the Canada , business Scotians - Scotians not furent not possédés by Act Trudeaumanie lors of these election . 
yet series once , we , business Liberals , faisions Act lutte àM. Stanfield , the Opposition of the époque of the Party Progressive - Conservative . 
Allan MacEachen fut the odyssey Liberal elected streets our province . 
after ma défaite streets South West Nova , I am retourné enseigner at the UniversitéSt. Francis Xavier . 
puisque what fut yeas moi series congruent intellectuelle , I devrais parler a little of them results of ma research . 
that ai - I learned at Act House of them Commons ? 
the thanking , I ai learned at connaître them people of Antigonish and the Guysborough and I ai learned much of things at the topic of their quais , the their brise - lames and , mostly , the Government absolue necessity of finishing them travaux of dragage before the beginning of health season of the homard earlier the spring . 
deuxièmement , I ai learned quels étaient them problems Economic of the west of the Canada . 
fell January 1984 , I ai been appointed at the Senate . 
that ai - I learned at the Senate ? 
the thanking , I ai acquis a nouveau respect yeas unabated House . 
what not is not to the everything a " club of them vieux " , commentator the prétendent some professeurs and some journalists . 
deuxièmement , I ai learned that the Senate may make a job législatif fort important . 
well - Provincial Members of the another place acclaimed little of time at consacrer at them bills of laws non controversés or purement techniques , and what is compréhensible . 
by conséquent , the work of the Senate complète gerrymandering of health House of them Commons . 
troisièmement , I ai discovered Act vraie value of the work of them committees . 
health simple mention of the work of them committees me fact penser at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign . 
transport senators soulignent often the importance of them reports of them committees ; however , I believe that we accordons too little of attention at some of these reports fell unabated House . 
by example , our report Act the Canada fell Asia - Pacific has attiré much of attention at them antipodes and well little at the Senate itself . 
i hope that our report Act the Europe suscitera a debate here . 
the second report , based on Canada and the maintien of health peace , should perhaps loan of here few weeks . 
streets what case , I am course that you discuterez firmly of them constations and the foreign recommendations of the committee . 
fell fact , I hope that the report of the committee you provoquera suffisamment yeas déclencher a tel debate . 
i tiens at thank the committee of them Banking and the Government trade , and mostly the senator Kirby , yeas everything what that I ai learned at title of member of what committee . 
he fell paving the same yeas the committee of them fisheries , chaired by the senator Comeau . 
he rereads fell has much of other at thank . 
i mentionne Irene Duy , who has been ma Secretary durant almost toutes condolences years at the Senate . 
aucune task not guardian never too difficult yeas she . 
i am pleased to health see with his husband at Act gallery bearer after - afternoon . 
David Murphy has been mon recherchiste . 
ses connaissances and his work assidu me acclaimed been indispensables , mostly streets the framework of them travaux of the committee of them Affairs Foreign . 
David Raynor , who is professor at the University of Ottawa and a parent of our former colleague Heath Macquarrie , not has ceased of me remind everything what that repositories at David Hume and Adam Smith them political modernes . 
i tiens at you say that I ai began streets them years 80 at écrire a book Act Adam Smith and that I ai abouti at a second book Act David Hume . 
transport links are if intimes between these two authors ! 
Smith apply is supported directly Act them bases jetées by Hon. prédécesseur légèrement more vieux . 
commentator til the has said without overstating streets the prior - propos of the report that I ai presented yesterday , the committee apply is much fié Act Act jurisdiction of Peter Berg , our recherchiste . 
streets the case of the report Act the maintien of health peace , Wolfgang Koerner not has not ménagé ses efforts fell essayant with much of success of apply heed at the courant of toutes them nouvelles Act the Kosovo , health defence European , the NATO and Oceans Nations Nations . 
unabated référence , Proposed by the senator Lynch - Staunton , run is révélée perhaps everything at fact opportune . 
David Goetz we took aidés with ses recherches remarquables Act two questions : the genus share , the intervention of the NATO fell Yugoslavia without mandate of them Nations Nations and the another share , the role that the Parliament should play when the Canada participe at the foreign missions of maintien of health peace . 
three greffiers acclaimed served the committee at the surveillance of them dernières years . 
i parle of Serge Pelletier , Line Gravel and Till Heyde . 
here and at the abroad , they acclaimed been our pilots fidèles and habiles . 
all levels people who acclaimed worked autour of the Senate acclaimed played a role very useful , that he remembered agisse of the Speaker , the foreign services of the Clerk , the Government staff fell General and , well heard , the our agents of security . 
our colleague , the senator Fairbairn , has spoke of Bessie . 
Bessie is series chienne formidable and I prie the senator Fairbairn of health saluting of ma share . 
i veux thank all ceux of between you who me acclaimed rendu tribute here today today , analyzed that all ceux who me acclaimed spoke fell private . 
you prostituted grandement exagéré condolences qualities and , by conséquent , you prostituted placé Act barre very haut yeas moi at the future . 
i you thank rétrospectivement and the avance yeas all vos bons mots . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
honourable senators , before the mood at them Affairs courantes of health journée , I voudrais profiter of unabated opportunity yeas you thank the Day confidence that you me prostituted granted fell me nommant at what station . 
i am very honorée and very touchée . 
with your cooperation and your collaboration , we allons travailler streets the meilleur interest of the Senate . 
i am certaine that we allons all travailler together yeas the Senate streets the respect and health dignity . 
i souhaite good luck at the senator Stewart . 
STATEMENTS STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
health Journée national of the child 
the Honourable Catherine S . Callbeck : 
streets the last speech of the Trône , the government has commitments several commitments at the hook of them children of the Canada . 
he rereads décrit seven initiatives précises who uncovered of them priorities at the surveillance of them five prochaines years . 
also importantes that soient these seven initiatives , I me sense more particularly attirée by the genus of between thin , celle who pertains the appui at the development of them children during Act petite boyhood . 
bye the number of them grands experts streets the field of the development of the jeune child consigned the Dr. Fraser Mustard . 
ses travaux of research acclaimed montré that series intervention précoce is essential at the development of the child étant rose that she discredit them bases at them purposes of the learning , the Government behaviour and the Day health during everything the cycle of life . 
ses travaux acclaimed rose birth at various programs streets the field of the development of the jeune child everywhere at the Canada . 
i tiens at porter today today at your attention a result these programs , authorized Act " Child Alliance Initiative " the Government Île - du - Prince Edward Édouard . 
unabated initiative originators has been adoptée fell June 1998 by a group of citizens intéressés . 
she réunit of them groups and the foreign agencies gouvernementaux and non gouvernementaux who oeuvrent auprès of them young children and the their family . 
til wants apply give a moyen of And them solutions possibles and the run attaquer at them causes fondamentales of them problems Cultural compliqués who affligent them young children . 
the Île - du - Prince Edward Édouard exerce by the biais of unabated initiative a true role of Leader streets the field . 
a program precise rendu possible thanks at the soutien of health " Child Alliance Initiative " is entitled : " Meilleur departure . " 
what is a program intensif of selection and the visit at domicile destiné at offer to the soutien at them children , the Day birth until at the age of three years . 
after Act birth of their child , business parents of health region apply verront offer Act possibility of participate volontairement at a process of assessment and the selection whose health implementation fell implementation incombera at the foreign nurses fell health Public . 
transport families who auront right at the soutien at domicile uncovered dirigées toward a agent of the program " Meilleur departure . " 
what program VI between other things at improve the functioning of health family and at favoriser series interaction parent - child positive analyzed that series saine growth during the boyhood . 
the program arranged évalué fell June 2000 . 
honourable senators , business children représentent our future and unabated year , at the opportunity to health Journée national of the child , each collectivité should apply give commentator objective of make fell sorte that foreign premières years of them children soient their meilleures years . 
if we voulons that foreign young Canadians apply manifestent and accomplissent of them accomplishments yeas eux , yeas them other and yeas the future , we devons veiller at what that foreign programs commentator ceux who are overburdened of the prior by Act " Child Alliance Initiative " deviennent series priority national . 
Koppel . Irwin Cotler 
congratulations at the opportunity to his élection commentator MP for health riding of Mont - Ballet 
the Honourable Sheila Finestone : 
honourable senators , I brevity today today mon ami and colleague nouvellement elected , the professor Irwin Cotler , Leader confirmed whose business interventions and Oceans propos apply inscrivent streets Act tradition , the history and the héritage of Veterans leaders of health riding of Mont - Ballet commentator Pierre Elliott Trudeau and John Humphrey . 
transport rights of health human , health Charter canadienne of them rights and freedoms , business conventions internationales Act them rights of health human and health primauté of the right déterminent Act quality of life streets a country democratic . 
these issues fondamentales , and well - other , donnent a sense at Act life of all levels days and thin caractérisent them activities of Irwin Cotler . 
his name is connu of all ceux who , at the Canada , tiennent firmly at préserver our society democratic and our rights fondamentaux . 
he is clear that a sense inné of justice is at Act basic of his commitment at préserver these values . 
commentator the has said at Position Presse Alan Dershowitz , professor at Harvard , fell considérant our nouveau member of the Parliament : 
he not apply intéresse not at him . 
he has voyagé everywhere streets the world at ses fees yeas defend the foreign men who , yesterday still , étaient fell prison yeas their opinions . 
ceux - ci him repositories a little of their freedom : 
Nelson Mandela fell Africa of the South , Anatoli Scharansky fell Israel , Andreï Sakharov fell Russia , the Nobel of littérature Wole Soyinka at the Nigeria , Jacobo Timmerman fell America Latin and Muchtar Pakpahan fell Asia . 
he the has done without never apply intéresser at the money or at Act publicity . 
the afternoon them paroles of Irwin Colter , his Prime professor and philosophe of right guardian his father , who him has always said that royal poursuite of health justice guardian Act something Act more importante . 
honourable senators , I believe that he has well maîtrisé unabated philosophie . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
i regret to duty interrupt the Honourable Senator Finestone , but his time to parole is elapsed . 
permettez - you , honourable senators , at the Honourable Senator of pursue his speech ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Finestone : 
i thank them honourable senators . 
the professor Irwin Cotler has profondément marqué the world of them rights of health human . 
he is now time that he circulation profiter the Parliament of his sense of the equity , the dapper compassion and the dapper sollicitude yeas them constituents of Mont - Ballet and Oceans citizens of the Canada and the Government world . 
là - dessus , honourable senators , I souhaite àM. Cotler Act welcome at the another place . 
i know that he we donnera amplement matière at reflection and favorisera Act diversity of them opinions . 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
banks and Commerce 
depository of the Prime report of the committee 
the Honourable Leo E . Kolber : 
honourable senators , pursuant at the article 104 of the rules of the Senate , I ai the honour to déposer the Prime report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Banking and the Government trade , who door Act them Estimates engagées by the committee at the surveillance of health first session of health Session législature . 
( the text of the report consigned at them Journals of the Senate to today today . ) 
post post 
depository of the Prime report of the committee Special 
the Honourable MabelM. DeWare : 
honourable senators , pursuant at the article 104 of the rules of the Senate , I ai the honour to déposer the Prime report of the committee sénatroial Special of the post post , who door Act them Estimates engagées by the committee at the surveillance of health first session of health Session législature . 
( the text of the report consigned at them Journals of the Senate to today today . ) 
the adjournment 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the alinéa 58 ( 1 ) 1:30 ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that , when the Senate apply adjourns today today , what authorized until at the Tuesday 23 November 1999 , at 14 hours . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
leave granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
health Act Act the divorce 
bill to Bill Amend - Première Reading 
the Honourable Anne C . Cools présente the bill to Bill S - 12 , Act amend Act Act Act the divorce ( child at charge ) . 
( the bill to Bill is read series first once . ) 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series second once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Cools , health second reading of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to health postponement of the Tuesday 30 November 1999 . ) 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at permettre the reportage électronique 
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs : 
honourable senators , I gives notice , at the name of the senator Kirby , that Tuesday next , the 23 November 1999 , he proposera : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology authorized habilité at permettre the reportage of ses deliberations translated by foreign media of information électroniques , fell dérangeant the least possible ses travaux . 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at retenir of them services 
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs : 
honourable senators , I gives notice , at the name of the senator Michael Kirby that , Tuesday next , the 23 November 1999 , he proposera : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology authorized habilité at retenir them services of advisors , techniciens , employees of office or other elements nécessaires yeas examiner them bills of Bill , health seams of bills of Bill and Oceans forecasts budgétaires who him acclaimed been déférés . 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at examiner them facts nouveaux regarding the euthanasia and the assistance at the suicide 
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that , the Tuesday 23 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
more particularly , that the committee authorized authorized at examiner : 
health measure streets laquelle acclaimed been mises fell implementation them recommendations unanimes présentées streets the report ; 
2 . Le evolution at the Canada ' Affairs différentes questions étudiées streets the report ; 
3 . Le evolution at the abroad of them différentes questions étudiées streets the report . 
that the committee présente his report final at the most tardle 6 June 2000 . 
banks and Commerce 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at And Act situation of the regime financier domestique and international 
the Honourable Leo E . Kolber : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that Tuesday next , the 23 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Banking and the Government trade authorized authorized at examiner , afin of fell make report , health situation actuelle of the regime financier domestique and international ; 
that foreign documents and testimony recueillis at what topic at the surveillance of health first session of health trente - sixth législature and foremost another document Parliamentary and témoignage pertinent regarding ledit topic soient renvoyés at what committee ; 
that the committee authorized habilité at permettre the reportage of ses deliberations translated by foreign media of information électroniques , fell dérangeant the least possible ses travaux ; 
that nonobstant them practices habituelles , the committee authorized authorized at déposer a report Interim Act ledit topic auprès of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that ledit report authorized réputé wheel been tabled at the Senate ; and 
that the committee présente his report final at the most tardle 31 December 2000 . 
privileges , Rules and procedures 
Authorized at the committee of sit fell same time that the Senate 
the Honourable Lucie pin : 
honourable senators , at the name of the Honourable Senator Austin , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the alinéa 58 ( 1 ) has ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that the Comité Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure authorized authorized at sit at 4:00 1:30 30 them mardis , even if the Senate seat , the now at Act end December 1999 , afin that the Comité puisse And them questions of privilege soulevées by the Honourable Senator Andreychuk and the Honourable Senator Kinsella , who acclaimed been déférées at the committee ; and that the application of the paragraph 95 ( 4 ) the Government Rules authorized suspendue at bearer regard . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
honourable senators , you plaît - he ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
languages Languages 
Authorized at the committee Joint Standing of sit fell same time that the Senate 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I veux introduce series request at them senators , relatively at them travaux of the committee Joint Standing of them languages Languages . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore is member of the committee . 
i présente therefore Act motion suivante fell his name . 
perhaps honourable senators , at the name of the senator Losier - Cool , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the alinéa 5 ) 1 ) has ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that the Comité Joint Standing of them languages Languages authorized authorized at sit during Senators sittings and Oceans ajournements of the Senate and 
that a message authorized Message at Act House of them Commons yeas the fell inform . 
what committee has traditionnellement sat same if the Senate siégeait at the same moment , and unabated motion is conforme at the usage of the Senate . 
fell fact , the committee has the intent of sit Tuesday next , before our postponement at bearer place . 
confirms explique therefore why he tangibly apply preoccupation of unabated motion now . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
transport Affairs Foreign 
the Soudan - Possibility participation of health society Talisman EnergyInc. - Possibility response at them criticism of health community international 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
i am convaincu that everyone the world connaît Act parabole of health poutre and the Day paille . 
the Canada apply is done the défenseur of the course - perhaps and the Day security of them people everywhere streets the world . 
the minister of them Foreign extérieures , Rand Axworthy , is prompt at criticize them country étrangers who never respectent not them rights of health persons . 
yesterday , however , the Département of State of them States - U.S. has renversé them rôles and has sévèrement critiqué the Canada because that he continues to commercer with the Soudan by the intermédiaire of the congruent pétrolière Talisman EnergyInc. , the Calgary . 
transport Americans acclaimed also accused the government Liberal of wheel renoncé at " his approach positive of health policy étrangère fell " fermant them yeux " sur them atrocities commises by the regime of Khartoum " . 
the Département of State affirme that foreign activities of Talisman streets them champs of pétrole of the Soudan are facilitées by the utilisation of " bombardiers , the helicopters armés and the pièces of artillerie against the foreign civilians non armés " by the government ' Khartoum . 
transport Americans craignent that foreign investment of Talisman streets the sector pétrolier of the Soudan encouragent the regime fondamentaliste of Khartoum at pursue Act War civile streets the south of the country . 
until at now , the government ' s Canada not has not yet ordonné at Talisman of apply withdraw the Government Soudan and not has not imposed of sanctions at what country fell dépit of them pressure exercées since a 2000 Act the minister Heritage of them Foreign Foreign by the foreign ONG Forces and internationales of same that by Act Coalition inter - Églises Act the Africa . 
fell fact , Rand Axworthy complements everything fair to accept the envoyer series mission of inquiry at the Soudan . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , unabated question has been scope at the attention of the government ' s Canada , and more specifically to the minister compétent . 
she is prise very at the sérieux . 
transport reports établissant a link between the congruent privacy canadienne boot by the senator and the foreign abuses présumées of them rights of health human and the Government right international suscitent of graves concerns . 
commentator the Honourable Senator the has underlined , the minister of them Foreign Foreign has sent series commission canadienne indépendante at the Soudan yeas Auditing apply he rereads has the foreign links between them abuses of them rights of health human and the congruent fell cause . 
a report him arranged presented and he prendra them measures which apply imposent after fell wheel commitments knowledge . 
the Soudan - Possibility participation of health society Talisman EnergyInc. - Possibility policy of the government Act the Opposition between Act plateforme of health safety humaine and Oceans interests of them investors 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , health issue that the snakes doit apply poser fell the occurrence , what is celle of savoir if unabated congruent privacy canadienne viole them rights of health human and the right international . 
if what is the case , the government ' s Canada could Robbie envisager of them sanctions Economic and commerciales relatively at unabated activité . 
commentator fell témoignent them measures that he has already prises , he is clear that the minister is very inquiet and that he agira promptement blocks that he fingertips fell main the report of unabated commission indépendante . 
the trade international 
the Agreement - free - Exchange north - validate - Ex procès intenté by series society californienne fell consequential of health loss of a contract of achat of water fell vrac - Possibility Position of the government 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
honourable senators , I ai series question at poser at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
i believe savoir that series petite congruent californienne appelée Sunbelt has intenté a procès fell dommages - interests of approximately 10,5 billion to $ against the government federal yeas the cancellation of a contract by the government ' health British - British fell standpoint of the achat of water fell vrac . 
Sunbelt fonde his Action Act them provisions of the NAFTA regarding Casual rights of them investors and the treatment attain - what is - at - say them rights extraordinaires of them investors - and asking for them dommages - interests non only yeas them bénéfices perdus , but also yeas the lack at gagner . 
Évidemment , unabated Action not arranged not entendue by a court ordinaire , but by a group of expert chargé of the regulation of them différends . 
account tenu of series decision récente of a group of expert of the NAFTA streets series affair opposant series society américaine at the government mexicain and regarding also them rights extraordinaires of them investors , the government Heritage is - he loan at apply defend until at the bout against unabated Action of Sunbelt ? 
i pose unabated question because that , streets Act malheureuse affair of the MMT , the government has capitulé appeared Ethyl Corporation and accepted the him verser 20 million for $ . 
health cause not has never been entendue and the government has concédé that Ethyl Corporation Partnerships right at unabated compensation . 
pouvez - you we say if the government is loan at aller until at the bout streets unabated affair , account tenu of what precedent ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , manifestement , the fact that unabated question authorized soumise at a group Special of settlement of them différends seems susciter series certaine controversy . 
i fell parlerai at the minister yeas savoir where fell are them things . 
i remind that if the affair is fell instance appeared a court or a group Special of settlement of them différends , health response risk of Welfare very brève . 
the senator Spivak : 
honourable senators , unabated affair is appeared a group chargé of the regulation of them différends fell matière of Commerce international . 
he not apply notional not to hearings translated and health procedure not is not transparent . 
transport people at the Canada not savent nothing to what who faces proceeded . 
what is series affair of a grandfather interest yeas the public . 
what is why I pose Act question here . 
the former minister of the Commerce international , Sergio Marchi , has everything fact yeas tribute the process of settlement of them différends more transparent . 
he is important that foreign Canadians sachent if , streets unabated affair , business rights of them investors trillion passent before ceux of them Canadians and if the government paving perhaps obligé of verser of them dommages - interests non only yeas them bénéfices perdus , but also yeas the lack at gagner . 
what is series affair extremely importante . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , health issue fondamentale , what is Act Position of the government at the hook of the export of the water fell grandes quantités . 
i présume that the Honourable Senator approuve entièrement unabated Position , at savoir that what country not should not exporter the water fell grandes quantités . 
we awakened fact of grands progress streets what field and I am course that the Honourable Senator fell conviendra . 
what case particular whose parle the senator Spivak can perhaps the one of them results of what progress . 
however , I ignore apply he serait sage at what stadium - ci of discuss fell detail of health strategy of the government and the foreign measures that he could prendre relatively at a case particular streets lequel series congruent américaine réclame of énormes impotent . 
health policy of the government regarding health defence against the foreign procès intentés by the foreign companies 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
honourable senators , if what is analyzed and if the Leader not can dévoiler of details , he is important to savoir if , streets what case - ci , the government is loan at suivre the regulation of them différends . 
what Intelligence can certes perhaps rendu public . 
i hope that the government not règlera not at the amiable with Act society , commentator he the has done streets the case of the MMT . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I am persuadé that the government ' s Canada arranged everything at fact loan at protect our interests Act the notice of ses advisors . 
i ignore quelles measures précises he paving prendre . 
he not is not indiqué of make connaître dapper Position yeas the instant . 
he is clear that , fell what who pertains Act question of principle , the government has passed series Position ferme at the hook of the export of water fell grandes quantités . 
the government federal has obtenu Act cooperation of them provinces at bearer regard . 
we analyzed parvenus at series policy national that we défendrons by all levels afford appropriés . 
the government entend well the make . 
transport travaux of the sénat 
Points at the rules 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I interviens yeas garantir series certaine certainty streets our procedures . 
the paragraph 56 ( 3 ) the Government Rules of the Senate door Act Act question of them notice at give and said rejecting : 
the notice prescrit here may perhaps tabled by a senator at the name of a another senator ... 
the senator Hays has rose notice of series motion at the name of the Speaker pro tempore . 
the paragraph 56 ( 3 ) précise that a senator can agir at the name of a another senator absent , with Act leave of what last . 
the paragraph 55 ( 3 ) introduces that when the Speaker souhaite participate at the debate , he doit quitter the fauteuil and inviter a another senator at présider Act postponement . 
the senator who is also the Speaker can Robbie participate fully at the debate commentator everything another senator . 
i think that royal same something apply applies at the Speaker pro tempore . 
yeas traiter unabated affair convenablement , he aurait fallu that Mrs. the Speaker pro tempore quitte his fauteuil and that a another senator ' occupies , pursuant at what that introduces the paragraph 56 ( 3 ) and at Act logical of them interventions telle that she is exposée streets the article 55 of the rules . 
we devons adhere what that has statué the Speaker yesterday . 
i cannot contesterai not Act validité of health procedure suivie , but at the future , he particulars can - perhaps apply conformer at the rules . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I thank the Opposition Deputy of the Opposition of wheel soulevé Act question . 
i dois reconnaître that I cannot ai not asked Act leave of propose Act motion pursuant at the rules but , at the écouter , I conclus that he has reason if I ai proposed Act motion at the name of the Speaker pro tempore . 
i ai unsuccessfully of explain Act reason yeas laquelle I ai presented Act motion , at savoir that she faisait subsequently at series request for the Speaker pro tempore , what who never aurait can - perhaps not owed perhaps mentioned . 
i devrais examiner the countdown rendu yeas see what that I ai said exactly . 
whereupon that he fell authorized , mon intention guardian of ask Act leave and the propose Act motion moi - even . 
i cannot am not member of the committee Joint and I ai solemn mentioned the Speaker pro tempore , who fell is member . 
i believe savoir that royal first meeting fingertips instead Tuesday next , the where unabated initiative . 
i saisis perfectly them propos of the senator Kinsella and I cannot manquerai not to me fell remind at the future . 
i the thank the no not élever of objection or the no not refuser Act leave , what who facilitera évidemment the work of the committee . 
orders OF THE 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
second reading - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Kirby , supported by the Honourable Senator Lewis , Refer at Act second reading of the bill to Bill C - 6 , Act visant at facilitate and at promote the trade électronique fell protégeant them information personnels recueillis , utilisés or releases streets certaines circumstances , fell prévoyant the utilisation of afford électroniques yeas communiquer or enregistrer of the information and the foreign transactions and fell amend Act Act Act Act Evidence at the Canada , health Act Act them textes réglementaires and health Act Act Act révision of them laws . 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
honourable senators , the trade électronique is series question who me intéresse at the most haut standpoint . 
i am therefore highly happy to prendre share at the debate Act the bill to Bill C - 6 , Act Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques . 
unabated initiative VI at protect the character private of them information personnels recueillis , utilisés or releases by some agencies Airports streets the framework of activity commerciales . 
she énonce also the foreign criteria yeas series Signing électronique sécurisée at them purposes of them transactions électroniques conclues with the government and précise how individuals courts pourront authentifier them documents électroniques admitted fell Evidence . 
the Canada has a need urgent of unabated bill yeas ensure the success of dapper participation at the economy World of the savoir , series economy fell plein essor who , at the say to them expert fell Act matière , doit exploser streets less of a 2000 . 
the ennui , commentator the said : Senator Murray , is that the bill to Bill C - 6 not is not at Act hauteur . 
his wording underlies at semer Act confusion streets them esprits and comporte of very graves flaws . 
he not is not certain that he puisse protect efficacement Act life privacy of them Canadians everything fell favorisant the success of their participation at the trade électronique international . 
what is là series uncertainty whose the Canada not has not them afford apply he account conserver his advantage fell matière of competition streets the economy World . 
the bill to Bill C - 6 is the implementation of a government whose health temporisation the oblige today today at élaborer at blunt skating of them textes of Bill yeas protect them Canadians streets the context of the expansion next of the trade électronique . 
the government has shirts traîner them things and doit at présent rattraper ses two summarizing partners trading , business States - U.S. and the Union European , who faces are already pourvus of them instruments législatifs nécessaires fell matière of Commerce électronique and the protection of health life privacy . 
we savons all that til déclare that the trade électronique paving changer Act manner whose the Canada dictatorship them Affairs . 
our country is a leader Whalers fell matière of technology of the information . 
however , business statistics révèlent that foreign companies of the country seem hesitate at utiliser what catalyst drives economic that is the trade électronique . 
the afternoon series study menée by Angus Reid , at the spring last , business businesses Forces acclaimed been lentes at exploiter them opportunities for the trade électronique , well that 12,9 million for Canadians soient branchés . Le inquiry 
indique that , well that 90 per - Provincial acheteurs fell line Airports cherchent sciemment their sites , only 38p. cent effectuent really the foreign transactions fell line with the foreign companies Forces . 
confirms we amène at us ask quelles are them compagnies who tirent profit from the power to achat of them 62p. cent of acheteurs fell line Airports restants and streets quels country thin apply trouvent . 
contrairement at their counterparts Forces , business businesses américaines acclaimed su saisir the opportunité of health revolution of the trade électronique . 
transport small compagnies spécialisées and Oceans géants of the industry reassess that Procter & Gamble , by example , lancent of them initiatives commerciales importantes who are destinées at utiliser Act technology of the trade électronique yeas optimiser them services proposés at them consumers . 
compared , business businesses Forces are very fell retard by report at them businesses américaines streets what field . 
what imbalance could give at them States - U.S. , our Main partner commercial and concurrent economic , the monopoly of the trade électronique when what last apply développera really at the Canada . 
we risquons of losing of énormes incomes at the profit from our competitors trillion fell reason for health lenteur of health reaction of the sector private and the Government government . 
the bill to Bill C - 6 , streets dapper form actuelle , not fera that aggraver Act situation and I vais explain why . 
what Bill of Bill restreint of way excessive them activities legitimate of them small and moyennes businesses and établit a nouveau framework réglementaire restrictif , without that til ait réalisé of study of the impact of them costs . 
he laisse also présager series nouvelle series of batailles fédérales - Provincial , car them governments of the Quebec and the Government Ontario apply there opposent . 
a another problem is infertility at the fact that the bill to Bill C - 6 apply applies at the foreign agencies trading , but til not knows too apply he remembered applies at the foreign agencies without but lucratif or at the foreign professions commentator celles of the right and the Day médecine . 
by example , til not knows not specifically if unabated measure legislative could apply appliquer at them dossiers of a doctor . 
what not are là that few - unes of them reasons yeas lesquelles the bill to Bill C - 6 , run he is passed streets dapper Presented actuelle , could entraver seriously them initiatives of them businesses Forces fell matière of Commerce électronique . 
if what Bill of Bill sert at limiting the essor of the trade électronique streets the sector private at the Canada , he is possible that he permette at the foreign companies Foreign of apply give a important advantage competitive chez we . 
health nature same of the trade électronique allows at the foreign companies Foreign of échapper at our regulations fédéraux and provinciaux everything fell conservant Act ability to tirer party to transactions Projections with the foreign clients Airports . 
unabated situation could wheel of them effects dévastateurs Act the sector private , the economy and , fell bout of piste , business consumers of the Canada . 
health logical of the senator Murray me has convaincu that the bill to Bill C - 6 correspond véritablement at two bills of Bill fell a . 
health controversée part 1 to what Bill of Bill , who protège them information personnels recueillis streets the framework of everyone type of activité commerciale correspond at a principle or at a but . 
transport parties 2 at 5 acclaimed trait at Act validation of them documents and processes électroniques fell vertu of health Act Act Act Evidence at the Canada , the Day Act Act them textes réglementaires and the Day Act Act Act révision of them laws and are axées Act a everything another principle . 
according moi , diviser fell two the bill to Bill C - 6 aiderait them honourable senators and the committee streets the study of the document and , what faisant , their permettrait of apply livrer at a review distinct and fell depth of them two themes and principles that the snakes retrouve streets what Bill of Bill No. 
transport parties 2 at 5 acclaimed been examinées quickly and almost oubliées at Act House of them Commons fell reason for the debate suscité fell response at Act part 1 . 
the Senate has now the opportunity to apply livrer at series analysis attentive of the applicabilité of these sections novateurs proposés who contribueront at Act implementation fell place to the trade électronique at the country and the conférer a status legal clear at some documents électroniques . 
he is important that the committee ait the opportunity to And carefully these sections . 
unabated measure legislative apply fact wait since long and doit perhaps adoptée of blunt emergency . 
fell what who pertains Act part 1 , all levels aspects of them provisions of the bill to Bill regarding health protection of health life privacy repositories perhaps analyzed fell depth . 
the committee not should not sentir that til the press of effectuer his study , somewhat regardless Act rapidité with laquelle the government can souhaiter that the bill to Bill franchisse the phase of the Senate . 
health protection of health life privacy is a right fondamental of all levels Canadians and series measure legislative apply ombudsman certes streets what field . 
bye the surveillance of health dernière session of the Parliament , the committee Standing of the industry to health House of them Commons has longuement examined the bill to Bill C - 54 , the prédécesseur of gerrymandering - ci . 
he has heard them testimony of a grandfather number of citizens , the expert and the bodies préoccupés , who acclaimed spoke of the importance of us doter of series bill solide and effective yeas protect them information personnels and yeas favoriser the trade électronique at the Canada . 
Incidence these groups apply trouvaient of them representatives of the Association medical canadienne , who faces are opposés at the bill to Bill because that he visait at réglementer the utilisation and health communication of information at the foreign purposes commerciales and that he risquait of wheel of them consequences négatives yeas them care of health and the system of health . 
recently , the other associations fell care of health health and professionals of health health acclaimed phoned , wrote , and adressé of them messages by courrier électronique and by télécopieur at mon office yeas express their concerns at the topic of the bill to Bill C - 6 . 
transport representatives of the Association dentaire canadienne me acclaimed informé that what Bill of Bill : 
they acclaimed asked that the Senate intervienne yeas clarify and strengthen them provisions of the bill to Bill who portent Act them information personnels fell matière of health . 
the Dr. David Zitner , director of the informatique medical at mon ancienne alma mater , the University Dalhousie , at Halifax , has release with moi yeas me entretenir expressément of bearer aspect . 
he has said : 
bye the Canada , health tradition wants that til utilise of them information personnels yeas the course public ( with the foreign mechanisms appropriés yeas protect Act life privacy and ensure Act confidentialité ) . 
transport activities of census constitute a example where the foreign people arresting perhaps contraints of fournir of them information personnels streets the interest public . 
the Dr. Zitner believes indispensable that series bill appropriée circulation fell sorte that foreign agencies of health health , business governments and Oceans instituts of research puissent utiliser them information recueillis yeas apply livrer at the foreign activities of research fell health and the improvement of health quality of them care , fell disposant of mechanisms appropriés yeas ensure Act protection , health safety and health confidentialité of these information personnels . 
confirms signifie that foreign agencies of research and Oceans établissements of health palatable utiliser a bloc of information and rédiger of them reports fell consequential . 
the Association of the Bar Heritage is also préoccupée by the bill to Bill C - 6 . 
streets dapper Presented at the committee of the industry to health House of them Commons , she has déclaré that royal part 1 comportait three summarizing problems . 
premièrement , health structure of health part 1 is inhabituelle fell right Heritage and not gives not really the bons results . 
health norme has volontairement been conçue commentator series series of lines directrices that series organization doit allegiances fell application and non commentator a code juridiquement exécutoire who crée of them rights and the foreign devoirs precise . 
deuxièmement , the barreau has seen series net possibility yeas that the role and Oceans responsibilities of the commissioner at Act protection of health life privacy créent certaines difficulties Act the Mifflin Plan Act procedure . 
yeas parvenir at the balance voulu between them rights of health human and the development of the trade électronique , the government doit veiller at what that the autorité Public responsible for the exécution of health part 1 ait toutes them resources nécessaires yeas make the work efficacement . 
by elsewhere , yeas ensure Act protection of health life privacy of them persons he not doit not employer of them afford who violent the right to them organizations and the their employees at Act confidentialité car what serait là a usage abusif of ses propres rights procéduraux and health law semblerait unfair . 
the committee sénatorial has therefore much of work rectificatif at make yeas clarify what fouillis . 
troisièmement , the Association of the Bar has déclaré that the bill to Bill soulevait of them questions touchant Act Constitution , yeas what who is the Day Division of them powers between them governments federal and provinciaux , and health Charter canadienne of them rights and freedoms . 
the bill to Bill is tellement ambigu that the Bar Heritage not pouvait say catégoriquement if the government federal réussirait at exercer ses powers if health measure entrait fell vigueur . 
bye the bout of the countdown , the association doutait that the bill to Bill résiste at series contestation judicial . 
according Act Position finalement adoptée by the Bar , business difficulties that raises Act part 1 , regarding health structure , business procedures and health Constitution , repositories perhaps corrigées before the entrée fell vigueur of the bill to Bill , because that thin risquent of causer of them problems of interpretation who finiront by miner the importance of unabated measure . 
honourable senators , he tangibly absolument that we , streets unabated House of reflection , surmontions the barrier and fassions what that the government not has not done - corriger them faiblesses of the bill to Bill C - 6 . 
we cannot pouvons more we payer the luxe of wait . 
the price at payer yeas the attentisme or health procrastination fell what who pertains Act implementation fell implementation of series bill Act the trade électronique is too élevé . 
what trade is fell expansion and the Canada not can apply permettre of not not perhaps loan . 
he voulait échanger Act the topic , at title of Quebecer of health region Atlantic and the vice - chairman of the exploitation of the Information Technology Institute , or ITI , a result them centres of Training fell technology of the information them more prestigieux fell America of the North yeas them graduates academic . 
Koppel . Cameron me has said that the exodus toward them States - U.S. of Canadians rose series solide training universitaire is bel and well réel and that he is at Act hausse streets the sector of health technology of the information . 
unabated situation is devenue yeas him series source of dilemma staff . 
fell activist that enseignant , Rand Cameron is happy to constater that the foreign companies of upper technology apply arrachent ses students and their offrent of them jobs enthousiasmants , assortis of excellents salaires . 
fell activist that Quebecer and taxpayer Heritage , he not is not also pleased to constater that royal majority of them businesses which recrutent ses students are the foreign companies américaines . 
transport businesses américaines are tellement empressées of embaucher the most grandfather number possible for graduates fell technology of the information that certaines acclaimed same began at offer to them jobs at the foreign students to the ITI before same that they aient terminé their training . 
i ai noticed the malaise grandissant queM. Cameron éprouve by report at the fact that a number croissant of students to the ITI who acclaimed axé their studies Act the trade électronique are now courtisés assidûment by several companies américaines . 
series once that they acclaimed obtenu their diploma , he is rare that these students demeurent streets our country , etM. Cameron think that we awakened already lost , at the profit from them States - U.S. , a number important to experts fell trade électronique who acclaimed received their training at the Canada . 
transport States - U.S. acclaimed already series longueur of avance Act we streets the élaboration and health implementation fell implementation of stratégies appeared permettre of tirer profit from the economy World axée Act the savoir . 
health response timide of the sector private Heritage at the hook of the trade électronique , conjuguée at them political Change restrictives Act the Mifflin fiscal and by report at the remboursement of them loans students , joue fell favour of them businesses américaines . 
we cannot impotent not based a foot of equality with them Americans , and he we arranged very difficult to soutenir their competition streets the field of the trade électronique . 
the bill to Bill C - 6 , who faces inspire the Day directive implementation fell implementation by the Union European and who paving at the encontre of the approach américaine actuelle , not fera that empirer them things . 
he tangibly adopt a bill to Bill who protégera them information personnels if we voulons that royal population accepte the idea of the trade électronique . 
the adoption of what Bill of Bill is also necessary yeas permettre at what nouveau drives economic of réussir at the échelle national and international . 
the bill to Bill C - 6 not we permettra not to achieve these objectives . 
honourable senators , we cannot pouvons everything simply not we permettre of adopt the bill to Bill C - 6 tel that he is formulé at the hour actuelle . 
we awakened here the opportunity to amender what Bill of Bill afin that he protège Act life privacy of them Canadians everything fell permettant at the sector private of prospérer and the demeurer compétitif by report at our Main partner commercial , well course , but also at the échelle World . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Kinsella , at the name of the senator Keon , the debate is adjourned . ) 
health Act Act Act defence national Position Act Act the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques Le Code criminal 
bill to Bill Amend - Second Reading 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Fraser , seconded by the Honourable Senator Ruck , Refer at Act second reading of the bill to Bill S - 10 , Act amend Act Act Act Act defence national , health Act Act the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques and the Code criminal . 
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin : 
honourable senators , before the débuter mon speech , I query thank the Solicitor General of the Canada yeas wheel tenu account the foreign points that I ai Arising lors of the study of them bills of laws C - 25 , Act amend Act Act Act Act defence national and the other Acts fell consequential , and the Government Bill of Bill C - 3 , Act regarding the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques and amend the Code criminal and the other Acts fell consequential yeas the élaboration of the bill to Bill S - 10 . 
these projects the bill acclaimed been adoptés lors of health first session of health trente - sixth législature . 
i am pleased to constater that the minister has also commitments fell considération them recommendations of the sixteenth Report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional Act the bill to Bill C - 3 , fell what who has trait at them changes at apporter at them laws yeas tribute Act management of health banque national of data génétiques more efficient and more respectueuse of the right at Act life privacy of them Canadians . 
honourable senators , he me fact plaisir today today to intervene fell favour of the bill to Bill S - 10 , Act amend Act Act Act Act defence national , health Act regarding the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques and the Code criminal . 
he has yeas but the inclure streets Act banque national of data génétiques , who has been créée by the adoption of the bill to Bill C - 3 , fell December 1998 , business profils of identification génétique of them délinquants condamnés fell vertu of the system of justice military . 
commentator you the savez , présentement , business provisions of health law not concernent that foreign délinquants who uncovered condamnés by the system of courts civilians . 
since his introduction at the Canada fell 1988 , the analysis of the ADN at the foreign purposes médico - légales has licences of obtaining justice condamnation of authors of some crimes violent , analyzed that royal remise fell freedom of persons condamnées at wrongly by foreign courts . 
the utilisation of bearer instrument catalyst streets the framework of investigations criminelles apply is introductory fell two étapes . 
premièrement , fell 1995 , the foreign changes furent Location at the Code criminal , yeas permettre the levy to ADN at the assistance to a mandate streets the but facilitate Act réalisation of certaines investigations relegates and the identification of suspects . 
by Act subsequently , fell September 1997 , the bill to Bill C - 3 fut tabled appeared Act House of them Commons . 
he Partnerships yeas but the encadrer yeas Act first once Act structure and the administration of series banque national of empreintes génétiques . 
unabated nouvelle législation apply inscrivait streets Act second phase of the Action of the government . 
he Partnerships yeas objective of établir series banque national contenant them profils of identification génétique of them persons reconnues guilty of offences criminelles graves and violentes , and the foreign échantillons of ADN trouvés Act them lieux of crimes non résolus . 
health banque of data should perhaps opérationnelle of here June of the 2000 2000 , and she arranged administrée by Act Mounted Royal Canadian the Canada , who dirige currently six laboratoires judiciaires at the country . 
honourable senators , well that I aie supported them motifs who acclaimed mené at the adoption of the bill to Bill C - 3 , I ai everything of same constaté , thereafter at a review approfondi of unabated nouvelle législation , that foreign departments of the Solliciteur General and the Day Howe specialist oublié of there inclure them profils of identification génétique of them members of the staff military who petitioners condamnés yeas of them offences graves and violentes , commentator what is the case yeas them individus who uncovered trouvés guilty of reassess crimes by our system of courts civilians . 
the 6 October 1998 , the minister of health Défense , Arthur Eggleton , témoignait appeared the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional yeas introduce them provisions of the bill to Bill C - 25 . 
commentator gerrymandering - ci Partnerships yeas but the réformer the system of justice military , I ai asked at the minister if them military stir or trouvés guilty fell vertu of health nouvelle bill petitioners subjects at the application of them provisions contenues streets the bill to Bill C - 3 . 
bye the époque , I ai also asked at the minister breaching corps of police , the Day RCMP or the Day police military serait responsible for the levy to échantillons of ADN and the their conservation streets them case of offences who impliquent of them military . 
honourable senators , these issues étaient very importantes car , according them provisions of the bill to Bill C - 25 , business offences of Order sexuel commises by the foreign military devaient dorénavant relever of them courts military . 
the most , health minister of health Howe , Anne McLellan , Partnerships already justifié Act creation of series banque of empreintes génétiques yeas that foreign policiers aient series effectiveness accrue and soient fell measure of arrêter more quickly them agresseurs sexuels and Oceans meurtriers at répétition . 
despite everything , the minister and Oceans military of health Défense national not acclaimed not been fell measure of respond at these issues . 
the brigadier - General J . Pitzul , the Government army canadienne , has affirmé that he not savait not if the bill to Bill C - 3 capitalists apply appliquer at the staff to the army and the Day Défense national , even apply he Partnerships already strokes several meetings with the foreign members of the Department of health Howe fell what who Partnerships trait at Act reform of the system of justice military . 
he remembered agissait therefore the one oubli very important streets Act bill , if the snakes considère that the bill to Bill C - 25 capitalists tribute the administration of health justice , at the Breast of them Forces Armed Forces , more opaque . 
fell what sense , he guardian unacceptable that foreign military jouissent of a status particular fell étant exclus of the application of them provisions of health nouvelle Act regarding the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques . 
confirms is particularly true if the snakes tient account the Government fact that at the surveillance of them dernières years , several scandales impliquant of them military fell mission at the abroad streets of them case agressions sexuelles and the voies of fact graves acclaimed défrayé them manchettes at the Canada . 
these incidents acclaimed terni the image of the army canadienne and the Hon. system of justice streets Act population canadienne . 
the organization of our society , everything commentator celle of our right , nécessite the uniformité . 
all levels citizens are égaux appeared Act bill . 
they disposent of them mêmes rights but also the foreign mêmes obligations appeared Act bill . 
bye the époque , business members of the committee not specialist not jugé bon of amender the bill to Bill C - 25 yeas that the staff military authorized submitted at the application of them provision , regarding health banque of empreintes génétiques . 
honourable senators , when we awakened examined the bill to Bill C - 3 fell committee , I ai soulevé of nouveau unabated question auprès of the Solicitor General of the Canada , who guardian responsible for unabated nouvelle législation . 
streets a prime time , I voulais savoir if his Department guardian fell agreed with what that Partnerships affirmé the minister of health Défense and Oceans officiers of the army canadienne . 
streets a second time , I souhaitais that the minister me dise that he Partnerships tenu account the their testimony yeas apporter of them changes at the bill to Bill C - 3 . 
health response at these two questions fut négative . 
lors of them travaux of the committee , I avais also émis of sérieuses reserves understandings at the effectiveness and at Act clarté of certaines provisions of the bill to Bill who capitalists garantir , notamment , that foreign échantillons of ADN and Oceans profils not petitioners not utilisés at the other purposes that celles prescribed streets Act bill , what is - at - say yeas of them purposes of inquiry criminelle , and that the right at Act life privacy of them persons who petitioners soumises at the levy to ADN authorized protégé . 
i avais also 3.25 fell question the fact that the bill to Bill prévoyait that foreign profils génétiques , who petitioners classés streets the " fichier criminalistique " and the " fichier of them condamnés " , devaient perhaps rendus inaccessibles after that series inquiry fut déclarée non concluante , that a individu not guardian more considéré commentator suspect , or whether a verdict of acquittement or the Unborn - culpability définitif guardian déclaré by the court at the place to a accused . 
according moi , these profils , despite what that acclaimed affirmé them scientific of health RCMP , run devaient of Welfare détruits yeas reduce them risks that they soient utilisés at the other purposes that celles prescrites streets Act bill . 
fell December 1998 , the sixteenth Report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional reconnaissait the emergency of établir series banque national of empreintes génétiques who permettrait at them différents corps policiers of the country of exploiter fully them progress technological récents streets what field yeas improve Act security Public . 
the report recommandait therefore at the government federal - strengthen them provisions legislatures regarding the administration of health banque of data génétiques and health safety of them informations who uncovered contenues streets unabated dernière . 
streets the but the respond at these concerns and yeas permettre analyzed the adoption of the bill to Bill C - 3 , yeas autoriser Act creation immediate of health banque of data génétiques , the Solicitor General of the Canada , Lawrence MacAulay , run is engagé , lors of dapper appearance appeared the committee , the 7 December 1998 , at introduce during the intervalle prévu of 18 months between Act Assent Royal and the entrée fell vigueur of the bill to Bill C - 3 , a nouveau bill to Bill who permettrait notamment of étendre Act juridiction of health banque of data génétiques at them Offenders who are reconnus guilty streets the system of justice military ; the obliger the commissioner of health Mounted Royal Canadian the Canada at tribute account the Government functioning of health banque of data génétiques streets his report annual at the minister before his Tabled appeared the Parliament ; the inclure streets the nouveau bill to Bill series provision exigeant a review Parliamentary all levels five years yeas atténuer them composition of them members of the committee regarding health nature very délicate the information that contiendra Act banque of data génétiques and the Government evolution rapide of health technology streets what field , and give at them committees of the Senate and the Day House of them Commons on same power to procéder at the examination quinquennal who arranged prévu by Act nouvelle bill . 
he is important to mention that all these elements figuraient streets the sixteenth Report of the committee . 
honourable senators , the bill to Bill S - 10 has been élaboré fell function of some points soulignés streets the report of the committee . 
according moi , he remembered notional of health third phase of health législation fédérale streets the field of the utilisation of them empreintes génétiques yeas Act réalisation of investigations criminelles . 
by against , the Solicitor General has asked that the bill to Bill authorized presented at the Senate before the perhaps tabled appeared Act House of them Commons afin that foreign senators puissent apply ensure that all levels points jugés préoccupants aient been réglés adéquatement by your committee Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional . 
rose relaté the historic of what Bill of Bill , I query now aborder Act question of them changes proposées by the bill to Bill S - 10 . 
bye them termes of the nouveau bill to Bill , commentator I the ai mentioned at the beginning of mon speech , business profils of identification génétique of them délinquants justiciables fell vertu of the code of discipline military who are déclarés guilty of series offence grave and accompagnée of violence uncovered inclus streets Act banque of data génétiques . 
what code apply applies at the staff military , at them Reserves and at some civilians who accompagnent of them members of the staff military at the abroad . 
fell vertu of them provisions of the bill to Bill S - 10 , business judges military uncovered habilités , premièrement , at tribute to them ordonnances relatives at Act banque of data génétiques at the hook of persons justiciables , fell vertu of the Code of discipline military , who auront been déclarées guilty of series offence désignée fell vertu of the Printed of health Act regarding the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques , and deuxièmement , at décerner of them mandats relatifs at them analyses génétiques at them purposes of investigations menées by Act police military Act to them offences désignées who auront been commises by the foreign persons étant Subcommittee Act juridiction of the code of discipline military , at the Canada commentator at the abroad . 
présentement , health law autorise Act police military at obtain a mandate yeas the levy to ADN sideshow apply he remembered notional of series offence who fut commise at the Canada . 
the fact that royal police military authorized now autorisée at obtain a mandate yeas series offence désignée commise at the abroad is series net improvement , if the snakes tient account the Government fact that most de4 40,000 members of the staff military are fell service dans27 missions at the abroad and that the foreign incidents graves impliquant of them military Airports apply are products fell Somalia and fell Bosnia - Herzégovine . 
commentator streets the case of them provisions actuelles of health Act regarding the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques , the bill to Bill S - 10 introduces that foreign échantillons analyzed that foreign results of them analyses emigrate perhaps Message at the commissioner of health Mounted Royal Canadian the Canada yeas perhaps déposés streets Act banque of data . 
health nouvelle bill introduces also that foreign provisions who uncovered incluses streets Act Act Act Act defence national , regarding the Authorized to prélèvements of ADN , health manipulation and health conservation of them échantillons and Oceans results of analysis génétique , and Oceans guarantees fell what who has trait at the respect to the right at Act life privacy , uncovered identiques at celles who are contenues streets Act Act regarding the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques . 
by against , thin acclaimed been adaptées at the context of the system of justice military . 
he is important to remind that royal Act regarding the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques contains series list of offences désignées who mentionne that everyone individu condamné yeas the genus of these offences could make the objet of series prise of empreintes génétiques yeas purposes of analysis médico - légale . 
unabated list has been divisée fell two types of offences : primaire and secondaire . 
streets the case of them offences primaires , business échantillons are prélevés obligatoirement at the moment of health condamnation , except streets of them case of circumstances exceptionnelles . 
til there trouve notamment them offences with violence them more graves and Oceans offences at uniqueness sexuel , offences that foreign elements of proof at uniqueness génétique arresting the better élucider . 
til there retrouve notamment them offences suivantes : inceste , exploitation at the foreign purposes sexuelles , murder , homicide involontaire coupable , agression army or infliction of lésions corporelles , infliction intentionnelle of lésions corporelles , agression sexual , agression sexual grave , enlèvement and séquestration . 
streets the case of them offences secondaires , the levy not is not obligatoire . 
by against , health crown doit convince the judge that the levy to échantillons is streets the interest of health safety Public . 
he remembered notional of offences less graves where the analysis génétique not can not always perhaps employée yeas résoudre a crime or fell prévenir of other . 
til there retrouve between another these elements : usage of explosifs , mood of piraterie , voies of fact , introduction by effraction streets a dessein criminal , incendie criminal , infliction of health death by neglect criminelle , voies of fact against a agent of health peace , flight qualifié , prise of hostage . 
fell vertu of the bill to Bill S - 10 , unabated list who limite them situations where he rereads has prélèvements of ADN apply appliquera désormais at them members of the staff military who auront been condamnés yeas wheel commis these offences . 
streets a prime time , health nouvelle bill introduces modify certaines parties to health Act regarding the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques yeas heed account the foreign changes Location at Act Act Act Act defence national . 
the most , the article 12 of the bill to Bill introduces that , streets them five years suivant the entrée fell vigueur of health law , a committee of the Senate , the Day House of them Commons or Joint procède at a review of them provisions and the Government application of health law . 
what same section introduces also that a report Act the activité of health banque of data arranged tabled each year by the commissioner of health Mounted Royal Canadian the Canada . 
he arranged tabled appeared each House of the Parliament streets them 15 premiers days of postponement of celle - ci suivant Act réception of what last . 
these changes auront yeas effect of respond at them concerns of them members of the committee fell donnant at the Parliament them afford to better surveiller and the contrôler the administration of health banque of data génétiques . 
finally , health law is modifiée by the bill to Bill S - 10 yeas that he authorized clearly énoncé that foreign profils of identification génétique and Oceans substances corporelles prélevées fell standpoint of them établir not repositories serve that at the foreign purposes of identification lors of investigations criminelles . 
honourable senators , I tiens at souligner that the bill to Bill S - 10 apporte also several changes to Order technical yeas specifying davantage some aspects of the Code criminal fell what who has trait at the application of health Act regarding the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques . 
these changes furent proposés subsequently at Act creation of a group of work federal - dd who Partnerships yeas mandate of allegiances fell 9uvre Act nouvelle banque of data génétiques . 
thereafter at several rencontres , business officials provinciaux of them sectors of health safety Public and the Day justice acclaimed affirmé that royal bill actuelle not guardian not enough claire fell what who has trait at them circumstances which Cutbacks that a judge not has not at ordonner a levy to ADN . 
the bill to Bill S - 10 répond at these composition fell énonçant clearly that a levy not has not at perhaps ordonné if the court is informé that the profil génétique of health human visée apply trouve already streets Act banque of data génétiques . 
the most , the bill to Bill S - 10 introduces that a judge of series cour provinciale arranged authorized at viserne ordonnance or series Authorized to levy to ADN who fingertips been rendue or délivrée streets series another province . 
finally , what Bill of Bill apporte several other changes techniques at the Code criminal yeas that the regime regarding the levy to substances corporelles yeas analysis génétique at the foreign purposes médico - légales authorized clarifié and strengthened . 
fell ending , honourable senators , I am pleased to constater at nouveau that , thanks at Act vigilance of them members of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional , health Act Act Act defence national , health Act regarding the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques and the Code criminal uncovered , at mon notice , and I am course that you serez of agreement with moi , grandement améliorés by the bill to Bill S - 10 yeas respond at them concerns of unabated House regarding health creation and health management of health nouvelle banque national of data génétiques . 
commentator I the ai said at the beginning of mon speech , he remembered notional of a tool extremely catalyst who fingertips of them repercussions importantes Act our system of justice and based our society . 
transport provisions of the bill to Bill S - 10 feront fell sorte that the right at Act life privacy of them Canadians arranged davantage protégé fell balisant of way more précise yeas them policiers and Oceans courts the utilisation of profils génétiques yeas of them purposes of investigations criminelles . 
i dispel you ensure that the bill to Bill fera the objet of a review sérieux by the committee yeas apply ensure that he réponde at them concerns émises by foreign members unabated House he rereads has now 2000 . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
honourable senators , if nil another senator not widow prendre Act parole , I irai of the prior with Act motion . 
the Honourable Senator Fraser , seconded by the Honourable Senator Ruck , moved that the bill to Bill authorized read series second once . 
you plaît - he ' adopt Act motion , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée and the bill to Bill is read series second once . ) 
referred at the committee 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series third once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Fraser , the bill to Bill is renvoyé at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and constitutionnellles . ) 
health Act facilitant Act prise of decisions médicales 
second reading - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Carstairs , seconded by the Honourable Senator pin , Refer at Act second reading of the bill to Bill S - 2 , Act facilitant Act prise of decisions médicales legitimate relatively at them traitements of survival and at the treatment of health douleur , authorized read series second once . - ( 
the Honourable Senator Lavoie - Roux ) . 
the Honourable Douglas Roche : 
honourable senators , blunt measure legislative touchant at them questions of life and the death exige of them parliamentarians series reflection of them more approfondies . 
what is therefore highly soigneusement that I ai examiné the bill to Bill S - 2 , Act facilitant Act prise of decisions médicales legitimate relatively at them traitements of survival and at the treatment of health douleur . 
i ai consulted the éminents éthiciens , whose of them members of the Association Catholic canadienne of health health and the Day Care - in Nova Dying Coalition / Canadian Coalition Against Euthanasia , laquelle réunit series trentaine of organizations disséminées streets everything the country which préconisent the soin compatissant , fair and respectueux of them mourants . 
i fais also Appeal at mon experience personnelle yeas them purposes of the study of what Bill of Bill No. 
bye title staff , I ai strokes at prendre of them decisions and at make the foreign recommendations regarding health relevance of prolonger them care médicaux that recevaient of them êtres chers fell Phase terminale . 
i know the experience combien he can perhaps difficult to prendre what kind of decision yeas them professionals of health health and Oceans members of health family . 
fell outre , he is important streets the framework of a tel debate législatif of determine them convictions personnelles of composite , what that composite éprouve streets his for intérieur . 
i believe firmly fell Act dignity and fell Act value intrinsèques of health human humaine . 
i estimated that all levels êtres humans repositories perhaps respectés , and what , at toutes them étapes of health life , the Day conception at Act death . 
fell définitive , honourable senators , I me oppose at the euthanasia and at the suicide attended because that these afford are incompatibles with Act dignity humaine . 
by elsewhere , I reconnais them rights legal that foreign patients acclaimed of refuser a treatment and I am everything at fact fell favour of health promotion of them care palliative commentator moyen of soulager them souffrances physiques . 
health illness , health souffrance and health death Cutbacks part intégrante of the experience humaine . 
the acte of mourir can perhaps the opportunity to series profonde prise of conscience of se who permette at the foreign people of affirmer freely and consciemment Act signification of their lives , and not simply a process inexorable auquel he tangibly apply soumettre passivement . 
the another share , business avancées scientific and technological fell matière of care of health acclaimed amélioré sensiblement our ability to soigner them diseases , the soulager them souffrances and the prolonger Act life . 
these progress not are not fault raise the foreign questions éthiques that royal society not Partnerships never strokes at apply poser . 
he is the foreign case where prolonger Act life by the foreign afford artificiels is a painful burden yeas Act human mourante or health family . 
he is necessary to arriver at a balance between two obligations : celle of not not give intentionnellement Act death at series human and celle of not not recourir , yeas maintain series human fell life , at the foreign procedures which imposeraient a burden disproportionné by report at them benefits at tirer of these procedures . 
account tenu of dictatorship , I trouve that the bill to Bill S - 2 has referred Act once some aspects positifs and some aspects négatifs . 
i supports the intent of the bill to Bill , who is the specifying them distinctions entourant Act decision to allegiances end at Act life of series human , fell particular Act poursuite or the discontinuance of the treatment , the case échéant , and the usage of médicaments yeas apaiser Act douleur . 
he is légal and moral that a soignant administre of them médicaments yeas apaiser Act douleur at series human whose health life is fell danger , even if these médicaments risquent of abréger Act life of health human fell question , at condition that the intent not authorized not to causer Act death . 
the Senate rose been informé of the fact that some soignants hésitent at administrer suffisamment of médicaments yeas apaiser Act douleur by crainte of Welfare criminellement responsables , what Bill of Bill is series measure positive . 
the inclusion streets what Bill of Bill of series provision recommandant that Health Canada établisse of them lines directrices nationales relatively at the abstention and at the discontinuance of the traitemen , sensibilise them professionals of health health and améliore their training fell what who pertains the treatment of health douleur and Oceans care palliative and circulation of health research Act Act fréquence of abstention or the discontinuance of them traitements is series another measure positive . 
bye présent that we awakened établi Act necessity of protect them soignants who veulent sincèrement soulager Act douleur of them patients , we devons veiller at what that unabated measure legislative , if she is adoptée , not authorized not series door ouverte at the euthanasia directe , légalisée . 
what is what that redoute Act Coalition national yeas Act life , who considère what Bill of Bill commentator a prime not toward Act creation of series request streets the field of the assistance at the suicide . 
honourable senators , voilà the dilemma auquel we analyzed confrontés . 
how perhaps course that the acte médical soulage solemn Act douleur , well that he authorized susceptible of abréger Act life ? 
how savoir if a patient not has not been submitted at the foreign pressure yeas that he accepte the treatment ? 
what treatment deviendra he ' utilisation courante streets them case where he not présenterait not to danger of death ? 
fell few mots , serions - we Act the standpoint of compromettre the integrity of health life , laquelle , fell our quality of legislators , we analyzed referendums of protect fell dépit of our desire légitime of soulager Act douleur ? 
voilà autant of questions who mériteraient a review approfondi fell committee sénatorial , if the bill to Bill venait at franchir the phase of health second reading . 
bye mon notice , we devrions give subsequently at unabated initiative . 
health issue deserves that we fassions the effort to élaborer a bon text of Bill streets the interest of all levels Canadians . 
well that what text not modifie not the Code criminal , I believe understand that he not VI not at fell atténuer them provisions interdisant the euthanasia and the suicide attended . 
however , streets his wording Present , nothing not garantit that what authorized solemn the case . 
health issue deserves a Insignia review and series more ample reflection . 
he conviendrait of specifying that royal human at laquelle he is done allusion at the article 2 is series human whose the Late is imminent and inexorable . 
he not tangibly not omettre of the specifying , what who never is not the case at présent . 
if the intent of the législateur is the soulager them souffrances of a individu frappé of series affection virtuellement mortelle , that what the authorized clearly précisé streets the text . 
i proposerai , lors of the study fell committee , that authorized apportée series Modified appropriée at bearer section , suivie of changes corrélatives . 
honourable senators , he tangibly also apply remind that he rereads has the foreign situations constituant a danger of death who never are not associées at series death imminente and inexorable . 
he rereads has the nombreuses conditions chroniques and at term term who never mettent not necessarily Act life fell danger . 
a diabétique who fact a choc diabétique fact opposite at series condition délétère , but Act death not is never imminente anguishes inexorable . 
the most , series human who is censée perhaps fell Phase terminale , who souffre of series illness chronique or whose health condition apply worsening not is not placée streets series situation délétère , and the bill to Bill should the specifying clearly . 
yeas the instant , I défend the principle voulant that series human who fact opposite at Act threat of series death imminente and inexorable has right at the allégement of ses souffrances and that the doctor or the infirmière who allège analyzed ses souffrances not should not perhaps passible of poursuites . 
however , we cannot devons not ouvrir Act door at the euthanasia directe . 
he tangibly apply ensure that he not there ait not series mauvaise interpretation of the exodus objet of the bill to Bill No. 
i invite the Senate at agir of way diligente streets unabated affair . 
fell response at Act question that I him ai adressée when she has opened the debate fell second reading , the senator Carstairs has quoted the catéchisme of the Church Catholic commentator suit : 
even if health death is considérée commentator imminente , business care ordinairement dus at series human patient not arresting perhaps légitimement interrompus . 
the usage of them analgésiques yeas alléger them souffrances of the moribond , even at the risk of abréger ses days , perhaps perhaps morally conforme at Act dignity humaine if health death not is not voulue , anguishes commentator end anguishes commentator moyen ... 
unabated Seneca , honourable senators , is useful , but rappelons - we that she is précédée by Act statement suivante : 
quels that fell soient them motifs and Oceans afford , the euthanasia directe BNA at allegiances end at Act life of persons disabilities , malades or mourantes . 
she is morally irrecevable . 
i am persuadé that fell unissant their efforts , business senators arresting rédiger series bill which aidera at maintain Act dignity and Oceans rights of a patient whose health death is imminente and inexorable analyzed that foreign standards professionnelles of a professionnel of health health . 
honourable senators , what Bill of Bill we gives also the opportunity to strengthen the soutien at them programs of care palliative at the Canada . 
the bons care palliative are destinés at alléger them souffrances and at improve Act quality of life of them persons who vivent with series illness avancée or who fell meurent . 
renforçons what need croissant at the Canada . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Roche , at the name of the senator Lavoie - Roux , the debate is adjourned . ) 
routine legal and Constitutional 
motion demandant the Authorized to utiliser them documents and testimony recueillis lors of the examination of the bill to Bill precedent yeas the study of the bill to Bill Present - Stands of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Oliver , seconded by the Honourable Senator Di Nino : 
that foreign documents reçus and Oceans testimony entendus by the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional at the surveillance of his study of the projetde bill S - 17 , Act amend the Code criminal relatively at the harassment criminal and at the other subjects connexes , lors of health first session of health trente - sixth législature , soient renvoyés at the committee , when he fingertips been constitué , yeas Act présente study of the bill to Bill S - 6 . - ( 
the Honourable Senator Cools ) . 
the Honourable Anne C . Cools : 
honourable senators , I believe that the senator Oliver is at them alentours and that he rereads prendre Act parole at what topic . 
i avais indiqué that I him céderais mon time to parole . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , fell the absence of the senator Oliver and account tenu of the hour , I move that unabated question authorized reportée until at what that he authorized disposable . 
the senator Cools : 
honourable senators , devons - we Extend unabated question at the name of the senator Oliver ? 
i widow propose the adjournment fell his name . 
series Senators : 
nay . 
the senator Cools : 
something a doit intervene sinon unabated question paving tomber . 
series Senators : 
Inscrivez - Status streets what case at your name ! 
the senator Hays : 
honourable senators , health issue not can perhaps abordée because that the senator Oliver not is not here . 
the senator Cools widow Extend Act question . 
the senator Cools : 
honourable senators , I believe that the Leader of the senator Oliver him has explained very carefully that , according what that I avais including , I him cédais Act parole . 
( the debate is reporté . ) 
Authorized at the committee of utiliser them documents and testimony recueillis lors of the examination of the bill to Bill precedent yeas the study of the bill to Bill Present 
the Honourable Joan Fraser , fell conformité with the avisdu 17 November 1999 , moved : 
that foreign documents reçus and Oceans testimony entendus by the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional at the surveillance of his study of the projetde bill C - 69 , Act amend Act Act Act the casier judicial and series another act fell consequential , lors of health first session of health trente - sixth législature , soient renvoyés at the committee yeas Act présente study of the bill to Bill C - 7 . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
( the Senate apply ajourne at the Tuesday 23 November 1999 , at 14 hours . ) 
debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
2e Session , Session Session , 
volume 138 , Issue 10 
the Tuesday 23 November 1999 
the Honourable Rose - Marie Losier - Cool , Speaker Pro tempore 
table of them Contents 
STATEMENTS STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
the Late of Laurence Decore 
the Late of Delia Grey 
the examination of health policy étrangère of the Canada 
the fifth anniversary of the tabling of the report final of the committee Joint Special 
health policy of intégration forcée of them farmers ukrainiens streets them kolkhozes agricultural of the ex - Union Soviet 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
the adjournment 
bill to Bill of implementation fell implementation of the Agreement Act Act Station spatiale international civile 
first Reading 
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe 
meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe the Government 21 May 1999 - ô of the report of health delegation canadienne 
meetings of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe tenues the 18 June and the Government 21 at the 25 June 1999 - ô of the report of health delegation canadienne 
meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe tenue of the 20 at the 25 September 1999 - ô of the report of health delegation canadienne 
meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe tenue the 25 August 1999 - ô of the report of health delegation canadienne 
agriculture and Forestry 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at And the état Present and Oceans perspectives of future of the Agriculture 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at And the état Present and Oceans perspectives of future of them Forestry 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at engager of the staff and at apply déplacer 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at permettre Act diffusion of ses deliberations 
Peoples aboriginal 
commission Royal Act them Peoples aboriginal - Notice of Motion autorisant the committee at And them recommendations relatively at Act function self autochtone and at appliquer them mémoires reçus and Oceans testimony entendus durant Act first session 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
privileges , Rules and procedures 
Authorized at the committee of sit fell same time that the Senate ? Le objet of them meetings 
the work 
health situation critique of them without - abri - Possibility Position of the government 
transport fisheries and Oceans océans 
transport provinces Maritimes - Comments Particulars Act Act decision to health Court Supreme confirmant them rights of fishery of them aboriginal 
transport Affairs Indian and the North Heritage 
transport provinces maritimes - Comments Particulars Act Act decision to health Court Supreme confirmant them rights of fishery of them aboriginal - Comments propos of the minister 
transport Affairs Foreign 
the Soudan - Ex role of health society Talisman Energy - Possibility Position of the government Act the Opposition between Act plateforme of health safety humaine and Oceans interests of them investors 
transport finances 
health policy of the government Act Act hausse of them rate of interest 
transport Affairs Intergovernmental 
transport conditions of a next referendum québécois - Possibility Position of the government 
health defence national 
the Livre white of 1994 - Possibility policy of the government 
the replacement of the parc of helicopters Sea King 
transport Veterans Veterans 
the study Act them établissements of health - Ex influence of the report of the subamendment - Committee on the Senate 
transport Affairs Foreign 
the Kosovo - Ex assistance self 
the Program of exchange of pages with Act House of them Commons 
orders OF THE 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
second reading - Continued of the debate 
bill to Bill of 1999 Act Act implementation fell implementation of conventions fiscales 
second reading - Continued of the debate 
the speech of the Trône 
motion of Adopted of the Adresse fell response - Continued of the debate 
routine legal and Constitutional 
Authorized at the committee of utiliser them documents and testimony recueillis lors of the examination of the bill to Bill precedent yeas the study of the bill to Bill Present 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
motion autorisant the committee at And them facts nouveaux regarding the euthanasia and the assistance at the suicide - Adjourned of the debate 
banks and Commerce 
Authorized at the committee of And Act situation of the regime financier domestique and international 
the SENATE 
the Tuesday 23 November 1999 
health postponement is ouverte at 14 hours , the Speaker pro tempore étant at the fauteuil . 
prayers . 
the Late of Laurence Decore 
the Late of Delia Grey 
the Honourable Thelma J . Chalifoux : 
Delia Grey is Manitoulin streets the north of the Alberta fell 1917 , but has grandi streets Act region of St - Albert . 
Lawrence Decore is born at Vegreville , fell Alberta , fell 1940 and has grandi at Vegreville , Ottawa and Edmonton . 
these two leaders acclaimed emprunté of them sentiers différents certes , but , composite at dapper manner , they acclaimed contributed at the better - perhaps the foreign Peoples aboriginal and the foreign nouveaux flocked who faces are installés here yeas réaliser their dreams . 
Lawrence has been a member loyal of the Party Liberal of the Alberta and the Government Canada who has lutté yeas the right and health possibility yeas all of make part of health mosaïque canadienne . 
Delia has been series citoyenne loyale and dévouée of health Nation métisse and the Government Canada who has oeuvré without relâche yeas them M and Oceans Peoples of them First First afin that eux also puissent réaliser their dreams and make part of health mosaïque canadienne . 
transport challenges that these two persons acclaimed su relever with courage are too nombreux yeas them énumérer all here , but I atteste appeared you , honourable senators , at Act once the foreign changes which acclaimed been rendus possibles thanks at the implementation of these individuals and the their lives of devotion consacrée at the service of their fellow . 
their wisdom , their gentillesse and their generosity uncovered regrettées by all ceux and toutes celles who them acclaimed rencontrés Act their road , but the héritage that they we laissent apply perpétuera streets our children and our history . 
we devrions celebrate their lives and express the bonheur that we awakened strokes of them connaître all sides . 
they we manqueront . 
the examination of health policy étrangère of the Canada 
the fifth anniversary of the tabling of the report final of the committee Joint Special 
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier : 
honourable senators , what months - ci Gallery the fifth anniversary of the tabling of the report final of the committee Joint chargé of the examination of health policy étrangère of the Canada . 
what report contenait close to series cinquantaine of recommendations regarding the foreign subjects also vastes that royal contribution at the development sustainable , the renforcement of health safety commune fell passant by the renewal of the assistance international . 
streets series letter that I adressais at the minister of them Foreign Foreign , the Honourable Lloyd Axworthy , the 2,500 November last , I demandais at the minister series implementation at day analyzed that foreign measures concrete prises by the Department since the tabling of what report . 
without wheel still received series response , he appert that the assainissement of them finances translated has considérablement reduced the assistance extérieure canadienne at them country fell voie of developing . 
Robbie that the committee recommandait of stabiliser the budget at the assistance Public at the development at 0,7p. cent of the PNB , what ratio is past the 0,45p. cent fell 1991 at 0,26p. cent yeas the fiscal financier 1999 - 2000 . 
a second aspect cher at the committee guardian Act promotion and the rayonnement of health culture and the Government savoir Airports . 
what is Act first once that series révision also sérieuse portait Act what topic . 
the Canada done consigned of parent pauvre , if the snakes considère them maigres investment facts at what chapter by the government Heritage . 
fell attendant series response to the minister , who me permettra of évaluer the work of the Department of them Foreign Foreign at the surveillance of them five dernières years , I voulais souligner the work sérieux accompli by what committee . 
health policy of intégration forcée of them farmers ukrainiens streets them kolkhozes agricultural of the ex - Union Soviet 
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk : 
honourable senators , he rereads has approximately 67 years , a événement terrible and very triste has changed yeas always Act life of health population ukrainienne . 
what is fell 1932 - 1933 that the Leader Soviet Joseph Stalin , fell standpoint of contraindre them million for farmers ukrainiens at mood at the Agriculture collective Soviet , has passed , the way démoniaque , several tactics visant at installer series famine policy . 
he has passed on them measures telles that royal hausse of them quotas of supply céréalier fell Ukraine at 44p. cent , afin of create series pénurie extrême of céréales and the entraîner the incapacité of them paysans ukrainiens of apply nourrir , health implementation fell place to a system of passeports internationaux destiné at limiting them déplacements of them Ukrainiens at Act research of nourriture , the exécution of blunt human surprise at prendre or at cacher of them céréales streets a kolkhoze , health persécution of thousands of intellectuels , the écrivains and the chefs ukrainiens and the assaut at the assistance to tanks and the artillerie of villages habités by the foreign farmers without defence . 
what not are là that few - unes of them measures political horribles prises by the Leader Soviet Joseph Stalin and by Hon. man of main Lazar Kaganovich fell standpoint of écraser Act volonté of résistance of the Ukraine . 
despite them efforts considérables déployés yeas cacher or effacer the atrocité of unabated famine policy , the foreign academic émérites acclaimed recueilli of them preuves concrete who permettent of évaluer at approximately 10 million the number of victims of the genocide . 
he is regrettable that the world occidental not ait not recognized or including the ampleur of the genocide when the Union Soviet existait still . 
transport leaders actuels of the Kremlin rose recognized bearer événement historic atroce , what last doit perhaps including and commémoré . 
he wrote : 
what that I ai seen what morning - là guardian if horrible that he not there has not to mots yeas the describe . 
they specialist been commitments at the piège and laissés composite chez him at mourir of hunger , pursuant at series decision policy prise streets series Capital very lointaine , autour of tables of conference and the banquet . 
they not specialist same not Act consolation of the inévitabilité yeas soulager the horreur . 
i know that foreign senators streets unabated House are the ardents défenseurs of health cause of them rights of health human analyzed that the Day dignity and the Day value of all levels êtres humans . 
i you encourage therefore , honourable senators , at you join what night at the Congress ukrainien Heritage and at the Group of friendship Canada - Ukraine afin of tribute tribute at them victims of the genocide by Act famine orchestré fell Ukraine fell 1932 - 1933 . 
you prostituted received a notice at vos bureaux , but I you remind that bearer événement fingertips instead what night at 19 1:30 30 streets the Block of the Centre , pièce 237 - C . 
i am sûre that foreign honourable senators profiteront of unabated opportunity yeas tribute tribute at them victims of health famine . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate , and nonobstant the article 58 ( 1 ) 1:30 ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that , when the Senate apply adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until at tomorrow , the Wednesday 24 November 1999 , at 1:30 1:30 30 . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
bill to Bill of implementation fell implementation of the Agreement Act Act Station spatiale international civile 
first Reading 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore informe the Senate that he has received from them Communes a message accompagné of the bill to Bill C - 4 , Act Convey implementation fell implementation of the Agreement conclu between the government ' s Canada , business governments of States members of the Agency spatiale European , the government ' s Japan , the government ' health Federation of Russia and the government ' Affairs States - U.S. of America Act Act cooperation relative at Act Station spatiale international civile and apportant of them changes connexes at the other Acts . 
( the bill to Bill is read series first once . ) 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series second once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Hays , health second reading of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to health postponement dujeudi 25 November 1999 . ) 
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe 
meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe the Government 21 May 1999 - ô of the report of health delegation canadienne 
the Honourable Lorna Milne : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to déposer the Prime report of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe Act Act delegation canadienne at Act meeting tenue the 21 May 1999 at Paris , fell France , the Day Commission of the Environment , the Government aménagement of the territory and the foreign powers premises of the Council of the Europe . 
meetings of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe tenues the 18 June and the Government 21 at the 25 June 1999 - ô of the report of health delegation canadienne 
the Honourable Lorna Milne : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to déposer the second report of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe Act Act delegation canadienne at them sittings of health commission of them questions Economic and the Government development of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe tenues at the seat of the Organization of cooperation and the development Economic ( OECD ) , at Paris , the 18 June , analyzed that at Act session plénière of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe tenue at Strasbourg , fell France , the Government 21 at the 25 June 1999 . 
meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe tenue of the 20 at the 25 September 1999 - ô of the report of health delegation canadienne 
the Honourable Lorna Milne : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to déposer the third report of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe Act Act delegation canadienneà Act session plénière of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Conseilde the Europe tenue at Strasbourg , fell France , the Government 20 au25 September 1999 . 
meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe tenue the 25 August 1999 - ô of the report of health delegation canadienne 
the Honourable Lorna Milne : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to déposer the fourth report of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe Act Act delegation canadienne at Act meeting of the committee Standing of them parliamentarians of health region arctique tenue the 25 August 1999 at Mourmansk , fell Russia . 
agriculture and Forestry 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at And the état Present and Oceans perspectives of future of the Agriculture 
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that Wednesday next , the 24 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of the Agriculture and the foreign Forestry authorized authorized at And the état Present and Oceans perspectives of future of the Agriculture at the Canada ; and 
that the Comité circulation report at the most tardle 29 June 2001 . 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at And the état Present and Oceans perspectives of future of them Forestry 
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that Wednesday next , the 24 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of the Agriculture and the foreign Forestry authorized authorized at And the état Present and Oceans perspectives of future of them Forestry at the Canada ; and 
that the Comité circulation report at the most tardle 29 June 2001 . 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at engager of the staff and at apply déplacer 
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that Wednesday next , the 24 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of the Agriculture and the foreign Forestry authorized habilité at retenir them services of advisors , techniciens , employees of office or other elements nécessaires yeas examiner them bills of Bill , health seams of bills of Bill and Oceans forecasts budgétaires who him acclaimed been déférés ; and 
that the Comité authorized authorized at apply déplacer at travers the Canada and at the abroad at them purposes of reassess examinations . 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at permettre Act diffusion of ses deliberations 
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that Wednesday next , the 24 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of the Agriculture and the foreign Forestry authorized habilité at permettre the reportage of ses deliberations translated by foreign media of information électroniques , fell dérangeant the least possible ses travaux . 
Peoples aboriginal 
commission Royal Act them Peoples aboriginal - Notice of Motion autorisant the committee at And them recommendations relatively at Act function self autochtone and at appliquer them mémoires reçus and Oceans testimony entendus durant Act first session 
the Honourable Charlie Watt : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that Wednesday , the 24 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Peoples aboriginal authorized authorized at make series study and at introduce a report Act them recommendations of health Commission Royal Act them Peoples aboriginal ( Document parlementaireno 2 / 35 - 508 ) relatively at Act function self autochtone and more particularly , at obtain the standpoint of standpoint of them Peoples aboriginal and the foreign other intéressés Act them questions suivantes : 
2 . them mechanisms nécessaires at the implantation of them nouvelles relations structurelles ; 
3 . them models of self self autochtone nécessaires yeas respond at them needs of them Peoples aboriginal and yeas concorder with them nouvelles relations structurelles ; 
that foreign mémoires reçus and Oceans testimony entendus Act Act question by the committee sénatorial Standing of them Peoples aboriginal durant Act first session of health trente - sixth législature soient déférés at the committee ; 
that the committee dépose his report final at the most tardle 16 December 1999 , and that the committee conserve them powers nécessaires at Act diffusion of them results of his study content streets his report final and what until at the 24 December 1999 ; and 
that the committee authorized authorized , nonobstant them practices habituelles , at déposer his report auprès of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that ledit report authorized réputé wheel tabled at the Senate . 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
privileges , Rules and procedures 
Authorized at the committee of sit fell same time that the Senate ? Le objet of them meetings 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the senator Austin , President of the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure . 
streets them Journals of the Senate to the 18 November , at Act page 128 , the senator pin , at the name of the senator Austin , has proposed , seconded by the senator Mercier , health motion suivante : 
that the Comité Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure authorized authorized at sit at 4:00 1:30 30 them mardis , even if the Senate seat , the now at Act end of December 1999 , afin that the Comité puisse And them questions of privilege ... 
honourable senators , I ai received today today a Order of the day . 
his expéditeur not is not identifié , but I know that he pertains the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure who doit apply Camera today today , the 23 November , at 4:00 1:30 30 . Cinq questions figurent at the Order of the day , whose four not acclaimed nothing at see with Act question of privilege . 
the Senate has authorized the committee at sit fell concomitance sideshow yeas that he puisse And them questions of privilege . 
health Ruling - Government committee could - she we give the foreign explanations at what topic and veiller at what that foreign instructions of the Senate soient observées by foreign siens ? 
the Honourable Jack Austin : 
honourable senators , the Order of the day to the committee has been sent by the Clerk of the committee and I cannot fell ai commitments knowledge that at afternoon . 
i puis ensure them senators that we commencerons by Act question of privilege soulevée by the senator Andreychuk , suivie of celle soulevée by the senator Kinsella . 
however , I avais espéré that we pourrions prendre series trentaine of seconds of our time bearer after - afternoon yeas autoriser Act renonciation at them rights fell what who pertains Act request présentée by the Church morave of America . 
nil member of the committee not éprouve of problem at bearer regard . 
the Church morave of America has réglé ses rights at the opportunity to health dernière session and souhaite make commentator if these rights specialist been payés . 
the committee arranged ensuite free of traiter exclusively of them questions of privilege before the retourner at Act House yeas obtain the other directives . 
the work 
health situation critique of them without - abri - Possibility Position of the government 
the Honourable Erminie J . Cohen : 
honourable senators ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
according to them informations , the cabinet expecting présentement series proposal prévoyant series dépense of 1,2 1.1 of $ oude 200 million for $ by year yeas lutter against the itinérance . 
the spring last , the government has confié at Act Minister of the Labour the mandate of find series solution and she guardian censée élaborer series strategy streets the month suivant . 
what guardian the spring last . 
the Winter frappe at our doors . 
the Leader of the government can - he say at the Senate when exactly the cabinet arranged loan at introduce a plan Covenant at the itinérance and at the allegiances fell implementation ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
i thank the Honourable Senator of wheel posé unabated question . 
what is manifestement a problem which présente of them proportions sérieuses everywhere at the country and who has much retenu the attention of the government . 
health minister of the Labour apply is déplacée of a bout at the another of the country yeas tenter of rapprocher the government ' Affairs administrés and the obtain their commentaires regarding the exécution of his mandate . 
commentator the savent them honourable senators , yeas venir at bout of the problem commentator he convient , he faudra vraisemblablement of them resources additional . 
transport resources nécessaires uncovered établies streets the framework of the process budgétaire normal . 
the senator Cohen : 
honourable senators , I am well at the courant of the number of miles that royal Minister has parcourus streets the country . 
i tiens at remind at them honourable senators that the need apply ombudsman now , before that royal neige commence at tomber . 
why nil plan not has he still been passed , fell November , fell standpoint of garantir of them abris yeas the Winter ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
i cannot voudrais not laisser at them honourable senators ' impression that aucune measure not arranged adoptée bearer Winter . 
i believe understand , honourable senators , that at what stadium - ci , what is a problem important who has been soulevé by Act Minister of the Labour , and I me attends at what that the other measures puissent perhaps annoncées Subcommittee little . 
transport fisheries and Oceans océans 
transport provinces Maritimes - Comments Particulars Act Act decision to health Court Supreme confirmant them rights of fishery of them aboriginal 
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau : 
honourable senators , I ai series question at poser at the Leader of the government at the Senate Act the affair Marshall . 
the minister apply rappellera that royal decision initiale has rose instead at something confusion . 
fell dépit of them Particulars who acclaimed been data , the minister of them Foreign Indian , Robert Nault , maintient always that foreign rights aboriginal issus of treaties apply appliquent at them resources Natural . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate is conscient of them consequences of unabated decision or the unabated Position . 
the minister dirait - he at the Senate if what is là Act Position of the government also ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
according moi , business judges acclaimed said that they voulaient that their judgment apply applies at them questions who their acclaimed been soumises and that they not étaient not loans at fell étendre the application streets of other domaines . 
i cannot believe not that they aient exclu these other interprétations . 
they apply are bornés at say that he not fallait not , by extrapolation , appliquer their decision at the foreign circumstances other than celles who are visées by she . 
bye the hour actuelle , the government apply conforme at what judgment , and health clarification that royal Court Supreme has apportée arranged of a grandfather secours yeas them discussions which are fell surveillance and who , espérons - Government , produiront of them results positifs . 
transport Affairs Indian and the North Heritage 
transport provinces maritimes - Comments Particulars Act Act decision to health Court Supreme confirmant them rights of fishery of them aboriginal - Comments propos of the minister 
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau : 
honourable senators , commentator the Leader of the government at the Senate Committee knows , the minister Nault has unsuccessfully of intervene streets the process and the run allegiances fell évidence at the échelle national - and I selected condolences mots with prudence - fell apply there insinuant can - perhaps a little too . 
Étant rose that he has created the impression that the cabinet supports the idea that the judgment étend the right ancestral at several other resources , and étant rose that the Leader seat at Act table of the cabinet , he voudra can - perhaps make understand at ses colleagues on the cabinet that he particulars ramener at the not what clone of Doug Young and the obliger at apply conformer at Act Position of the cabinet . 
transport problems apply aggraveront streets Act region of the Atlantic if what clone - and I emploie what word with prudence - Turcot streets Act voie of health destruction of them resources of health region of the Atlantic . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I hope that the senator Comeau me pardonnera if I transmets his sentiment General at the minister fell of them termes a little more modérés . 
i cannot ai not heard directly ses propos , but the minister voulait can - perhaps say that blunt Act question autochtone is more vast and not apply reduced not at a sector particular the foreign resources . 
i believe that royal clarification apportée by Act Court Supreme apply is révélée useful yeas résoudre what who constitue a problem very immédiat streets the sector of health fishing . 
i hope therefore that the snakes parviendra at résoudre the problem when the representative of the government fell Act matière rencontrera them various parties intéressées of the world of health fishing , there including individuals representatives aboriginal streets Act region of the Atlantic . 
he tangibly espérer that confirms puisse well augurer of health solution to other problems fell dangling regarding Casual aboriginal . 
transport Affairs Foreign 
the Soudan - Ex role of health society Talisman Energy - Possibility Position of the government Act the Opposition between Act plateforme of health safety humaine and Oceans interests of them investors 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
she fact subsequently fell reality at series question that I ai posée Act week dernière at the Honourable Minister regarding health society Talisman Energy , the Calgary . 
what morning same , health couverture médiatique continues to health situation révèle that the foreign shareholders of Talisman , notamment a group representative of them fund - placement and the foreign fund - Pension Plan congrégations religieuses , Cutbacks pression since a 2000 Act Act society yeas that she expecting them consequences payroll and Economic of dapper presence at the Soudan . 
streets a section released today today streets Act section " Opinions " the Government Globe Mail Mail , Tim Ryan , a priest Catholic who is since long actionnaire of Talisman , décrit them efforts déployés yeas amener unabated society of energy , analyzed that toutes them companies Forces , at assumer the role of stakeholders responsables streets the economy and at adopt a code of them rights of health human . 
the government is - he loan at protect them interests of them shareholders Airports if health mission of inquiry activist attendue révèle that royal presence of Talisman EnergyInc. at the Soudan contributes directly at Act violation of them rights of health human streets what country ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
i me commits at the make . 
understandings at savoir if the government Heritage prendra of them measures yeas protect them shareholders , I cannot am not certain of understanding what that the Honourable Senator entend by là . 
apply he pouvait me give more of Particulars Act the kind of measures that he considérerait appropriées , I pourrais can - perhaps him give series response . 
the senator Oliver : 
SelonM. Ryan streets the article of the Globe Mail Mail , the chairman of Talisman aurait asked : " Pourquoi we ? " 
what at whereupon , always selonM. Ryan , a group of shareholders aurait responded : 
... what that we demandons at Talisman we essayons systematically of the obtain the toutes them companies : one code of conduct exhaustif couvrant them rights conventionnels of health human analyzed that foreign standards reconnues fell matière social , environnementale and the work , the foreign repères appropriés permettant of mesurer the respect to these commitments and a system of vérification crédible of the performance of health society . 
the senator Boudreau : 
fell what who pertains Act society same , I ai already said at them honourable senators that if the inquiry confirmait them very graves allegations whose she fact the objet , he is obvious that he particulars envisager of prendre of them measures against unabated dernière , or against blunt another society apply trouvant streets series situation similaire . 
fell what who pertains of them measures précises that the government ' s Canada could prendre at the name of them shareholders yeas protect their interests financiers or yeas ordonner at Act society of prendre certaines measures , I cannot know always not at the fair what that move : Senator . 
the senator Oliver : 
transport shareholders acclaimed said that certaines measures that they voudraient see yeas ensure Act protection of them rights of health human and the other rights are already inscrites streets of them conventions approuvées Act the Mifflin international , commentator Act Declaration Universal of them rights of the man , business conventions of Geneva , business conventions of the Organization international of the work and health Convention on the ONU relative at them rights of the child . 
they demandent that soient appliquées these conventions and statements whose the Canada is signataire . 
the senator Boudreau : 
fell what who has trait at them actions of something society that what authorized , we devons insister Act the respect to certaines standards of conduct . 
transport allegations soulèvent of graves questions , between other , if unabated society has respecté or non these standards . 
if series inquiry and a report montrent that she never the has not done , the government envisagera of prendre of them measures against she . 
i believe that he geste is everything at fact légitime yeas them shareholders of procéder of unabated way . 
that some shareholders décident or non - give certaines directives at the council of directors , the government ' s Canada entend mener his inquiry until at the bout and , account tenu of them findings of unabated inquiry , he envisagera of prendre them measures appropriées against Act society . 
transport finances 
health policy of the government Act Act hausse of them rate of interest 
the Honourable David Tkachuk : 
honourable senators , business rate of interest acclaimed slowly augmenté these derniers months , at the moment where Act Bank of the Canada tente of juguler the inflation . 
he rereads asix years , the 23 September 1993 , the Globe Mail Mail rapportait that , at the say to the Opposition of the Party Liberal , Jean Chr , a government Liberal dirait at the gouverneur of health Bank of the Canada , John Crow , the accorder series more grande attention at Act creation of jobs , at the instead of apply laisser obséder by the inflation . 
when til him has asked what that he ferait siM. Crow not guardian not to agree , Rand Chr has answered : " Je you dis that he is a fonctionnaire of the government . " 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , our government has always respecté the role of the gouverneur of health Bank of the Canada . 
what faisant , we devons congratulate the gouverneur Thiessen . 
i think that he has succeeded of way remarkable at find the balance voulu . 
Robbie that foreign events streets of other regions of the world apply précipitaient , he has been fell measure of maintain the cap and , fell fact , the create series conjoncture who has licences at our economy of connaître series good growth and the pursue dapper growth at a pace remarkable . 
our rate of rBGH has been almost without équivalent streets not regardless lequel of them grands country industrialized . 
the senator Tkachuk : 
honourable senators , I fell conclus Robbie that we devrions autant croire them observations of the Prime Minister at the topic of the gouverneur of health Bank of the Canada that celles that he has faites Act Act GST . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I cannot jouais not a role active at the époque of the gouverneur Crow , but til établit a balance of way différente according them circumstances . 
when he remembered notional of determine whether them rate of interest are at a level approprié , confirms depends much of health conjoncture economic at what moment - là . 
if the economy apply door well - what is - at - say that she is fell pleine period of expansion - Robbie , he is perhaps - perhaps approprié of wheel a rate différent of what that he serait fell period of recession . 
the rate of rBGH réel of the economy has been the close to 4p. cent at the surveillance of them four derniers trimestres and til introduces maintain series damned growth . 
health growth of the Canada , Incidence them country of the G - 7 and streets the world industrialisé , not is dépassée that by celle of them States - U.S. . 
honourable senators , I cannot dispel parler of the character approprié of some rate of interest at certaines périodes . 
i laisse confirms at the gouverneur of health Bank of the Canada . 
i think that he accomplit a job remarkable . 
transport Affairs Intergovernmental 
transport conditions of a next referendum québécois - Possibility Position of the government 
the Honourable Jean - Claude Rivest : 
honourable senators , quelles are them intentions of the government federal fell what who pertains Act tenue of the next referendum at the Quebec - everything fell souhaitant that he not there fell fingertips not ? 
is - what that the minister could inform unabated House of them decisions who acclaimed been prises by the government federal at bearer regard ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , the blunt évidence , he not is not streets the interest of the government ' facilitate Act tenue of a another referendum . 
however , he rereads has certain principles that acceptent Act majority of them Canadians analyzed that foreign Members of the government and , probably , health plupart of them senators . 
premièrement , if ever he rereads has a referendum , he faudra insister Act Act clarté . 
health clarté arranged exigée yeas Act question at poser also well that yeas them results of the referendum . 
fell fact , unabated opinion represents series part extremely importante of health decision . 
the another principle Act lequel Act plupart of them Canadians are the agreement ? and what is a élément of health Position dugouvernement - , what is that the Parliament of the Canada doit wheel his word at say at the hook of unabated question . 
health separation not saurait perhaps Act question exclusive of series province . 
what is series question who intéresse them senators and the other parliamentarians . 
transport mechanisms exacts of application of these principles Cutbacks currently the objet of a debate . 
however , we pouvons souligner that , premièrement , health clarté is essential and , deuxièmement , health separation is the affair of the Parliament of the Canada and the foreign Canadians , and non - series Gotcha province . 
the senator Rivest : 
when the minister we indique that the Parliament of the Canada doit perhaps impliqué , wants - he say Act House of them Commons and the Senate ? 
streets his mind and streets gerrymandering of the government , is - what that the implication of the government federal is streets them termes of the process référendaire him ? same , commentator Act clarté of health issue and health majority requise ? 
breaching is the notice of the minister ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
transport honourable senators are invités at 209 their positions , and what arranged of elsewhere series part importante of the process . 
health Court Supreme has déclaré without ambiguïté that foreign problems of clarté , regarding health issue and Oceans results , intéressent the government federal and all levels governments provinciaux . 
the senator Rivest : 
bye the origin , streets Act rédaction or health formulation of health issue analyzed that streets Act majority who , éventuellement , could perhaps necessary . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , streets them two case without doubt , health clarté is importante . 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I dissenting something something of inédit . 
the minister , at the name of the government , we said that the Parliament of the Canada fingertips his word at say streets Act formulation of health issue and streets Act determination of the percentage of them Senators . 
fell fact , business two Houses of the Parliament contribueront at the process référendaire if the Quebec décide of heed a referendum . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , the Honourable Opposition of the Opposition élargit a little too Act scope of condolences propos . 
i ai said that the government ' s Canada doit participate at the process commentator the has prescrit Act Court Supreme . 
when I dis " the government ' s Canada " , confirms inclut also the Senate . 
understandings at Act clarté , I believe that the government ' s Canada and health province fell cause tiendront of them discussions . 
fell fact , the foreign governments of other provinces non directly fell cause palatable participate at them discussions . 
health nature précise of what process arranged déterminée at the surveillance of them weeks and the foreign months at venir . 
yeas the moment , I cannot serais not loan at describe fell detail Act nature exacte of unabated participation . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
i précise respectfully that royal Court Supreme of the Canada not has not ordonné at the government ' s Canada ' make whereupon that what authorized and that she never gave not rendu of judgment . 
she has rose series opinion allant well au - delà of them three issues contenues streets the referred to the government ' s Canada . 
the minister invoque here series policy self who has done the objet of discussions and who remains controversée . 
what that I dissenting , what is that til can prévoir , streets series certaine measure , series intervention Parliamentary and self streets the process préparatoire at the referendum Act the future of the Quebec , authorized at the Breast of health Confederation , authorized at the outside of celle - ci , before Act tenue of what referendum if ever he has instead . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I dispel ensure at the Honourable Senator that , when til préparera Act tenue of a referendum , the government ' s Canada not restera not inactif without participate at the process anguishes 209 Act nature of health issue . 
health defence national 
the Livre white of 1994 - Possibility policy of the government 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
the book white Act Act defence of 1994 rest he Act prise of position définitive of the government by report at them questions regarding health defence ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , if the senator wants obtain confirmation that some elements particuliers apply inscrivent still streets Act policy of the government , I me ferai a plaisir of obtaining yeas him unabated information . 
the senator Forrestall : 
honourable senators , at the instar of mon Opposition , I lis streets Act statement ministérielle that certaines changes Location at Act policy of advocacy of the Canada are passées inaperçues . 
i dois say , fell blunt humilité , that I me intéresse of enough close at unabated policy . 
the Leader can consult his colleague at dapper gauche apply he think that I plaisante . 
supposons that the foreign changes acclaimed been Location at Act policy since dapper publication he rereads has five years . 
i quote a extrait tiré of health page 50 of the document fell question : 
the foreign options and the foreign plans uncovered therefore immediately définis fell standpoint of allegiances fell service of nouveaux appareils at a price affordable , the here at the 2000 2 40,000 . 
the 2000 2000 is streets five weeks . 
the book white has been released he rereads has approximately five years . 
damned is Act Position of the Canada by report at the replacement of them helicopters ? 
health policy of our country has she changed ? 
no is - what not là Act Position of the government ' s Canada ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
understandings at them appareils Sea King auxquels the Honourable Senator apply intéresse particularly , I cannot puis that repeat what that I ai said streets the past . 
they demeurent Act priority numéro a result the minister of health Défense . 
the minister fact avancer the file , and we espérons wheel of them annonces at make streets a proche future . 
the replacement of the parc of helicopters Sea King 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , he rereads has something time , a exposé of needs has been préparé . 
fell fact , what document Partnerships been préparé before the cancellation of the market - acquisition of them 101 - 101 . 
we apprenons now that bearer exposé of them needs has refait surface . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , we savons , the afternoon them information that the senator Forrestall has portés at the attention of the Senate , that foreign things acclaimed bougé streets the program of replacement of them Sea King . 
confirms témoigne still , run he the fallait , the Government fact that the minister of health Défense accorde series upper priority at unabated question and that he rendra series decision définitive blocks that possible . 
commentator I the ai already said , I ferai connaître Act decision at the Senate blocks that I the pourrai . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
honourable senators , health period of them questions of 30 minutes is now terminée . 
health leave is - she granted to pursue , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
transport Veterans Veterans 
the study Act them établissements of health - Ex influence of the report of the subamendment - Committee on the Senate 
the Honourable Consiglio Di Nino : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
more earlier unabated year , the committee sénatorial Standing of them Veterans Veterans has produced a report exceptionnel Act Act health of them Veterans Veterans . 
what report has been applaudi and supported by foreign honourable senators , well course , but also by the foreign persons Foreign at the Senate . 
we croyons now savoir queM. Baker , the minister of them Veteran Veterans , run apprête at entreprendre series study similar Act the same topic . 
is - what là a reflet of the opinion that the minister has the Government excellent work done by the committee sénatorial or is - what everyone simply that his Department has too of money and wants refaire series study which has already been introductory yeas gaspiller the money that foreign taxpayers acclaimed durement gagné ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , the minister knows very well that the committee sénatorial fact of the bon work . 
til can présumer that the report of the Senate fera part of them documents Act lesquels he fondera them decisions that he devra prendre . 
the blunt évidence , he Justice necessary to ask at his Department of make series nouvelle study , but I cannot think not that he faille fell conclude that he not accorde aucune value at the work done by the Senate . 
the senator Di Nino : 
honourable senators , the Leader of the government at the Senate gives at hear that the minister Baker has can - perhaps seen the report of the Senate . 
the has he seen , yes or non ? Se he not the has not seen , the Leader of the government at the Senate could - he wouldn fell make porter copy blocks tomorrow morning ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , he is obvious that I parlerai of health issue at the minister Baker . 
apply he not has not yet copy of the report , I him fell remettrai series at Act first opportunity . 
transport Affairs Foreign 
the Kosovo - Ex assistance self 
the Honourable Nicholas W . Taylor : 
honourable senators , I ai series question at poser at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
what arranged soon the Winter at the Kosovo , commentator here to elsewhere . 
we awakened 3.26 of them hundreds of millions of $ at destroy Act superstructure of the Kosovo . 
health hunger , the froid and the lack of electrical menacent of nombreuses persons . 
that fact the government Heritage yeas help at fournir nourriture and chaleur at them two camps who faces are opposés streets unabated part troublée of the world ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , the government Heritage apply is engagé at fournir of the assistance activist economic that humanitaire at the Kosovo . 
fell fact , the assistance annoncée recently totalise something 180 million for $ . 
the 30 October , til has announced that series somme of 65 million for $ serait libérée by the intermédiaire of the CIDA , dont35 million yeas the assistance humanitaire , 10 million yeas the assistance economic and 20 million yeas Act pacification and the relèvement of emergency . 
the 1er November , til has yet announced series assistance Supplementary of 112 million for $ , whose 40 million for the CIDA , 15 million yeas the assistance economic , 25 million by the entremise of the CIDA yeas create a environment course and édifier Act peace , 20 million yeas the relèvement of health collectivité , et12 million yeas the program Heritage of appui at Act training régionale . 
finally , the 17 November , til has announced 3,7 million for $ additional yeas the assistance humanitaire and economic and yeas the Organization international yeas them migrations . 
we suivrons Act situation of close . 
the senator Taylor : 
honourable senators , the government songe he at envoyer series part of our surplus alimentaires , yeas lesquels our farmers not touchent not series compensation suffisante , at the foreign regions of the world who fell acclaimed a more grandfather need that we ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , at ma knowledge , confirms not done part of nil of them plans existants that I ai mentionnés . 
however , I poserai certainly Act question at the minister . 
the Program of exchange of pages with Act House of them Commons 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
honourable senators , I voudrais souhaiter Act welcome at a page of health House of them Commons who participe at a Exchange with the Senate . 
she apply appelle Cynara Corbin . 
she is Pierrefonds of Dollard - des - Ormeaux , at the Quebec , and expecting fell criminology at Act Faculty of them Science payroll of the University of Ottawa . 
orders OF THE 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
second reading - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Kirby , supported by the Honourable Senator Lewis , Refer at Act second reading of the bill to Bill C - 6 , Act visant at facilitate and at promote the trade électronique fell protégeant them information personnels recueillis , utilisés or releases streets certaines circumstances , fell prévoyant the utilisation of afford électroniques yeas communiquer or enregistrer of the information and the foreign transactions and fell amend Act Act Act Act Evidence at the Canada , health Act Act them textes réglementaires and health Act Act Act révision of them laws . 
the Honourable Wilbert J . Keon : 
honourable senators , I voudrais profiter of the opportunity yeas make few brèves observations Act the bill to Bill C - 6 . 
what is a bill to Bill extremely necessary that I supports with enthusiasm , everything fell rose few reserves . 
i ressens therefore the need to make few brèves observations Act the bill to Bill before that he authorized renvoyé at a committee . 
since few years , health ability to the Canada ' Camera , the conserver , the fusionner , the transférer and the utiliser of them informations apply is considérablement accélérée . 
he fell résulte that the foreign informations fell everything kind circulent streets the country , and even everywhere elsewhere Act Act planet , with more of freedom and the rapidité that never auparavant . 
certes , the élargissement of our ability at bearer regard comporte of them benefits , but he not fell remains not least that royal question of health cueillette , the Day divulgation and the Government utilisation of them information suscite a certain number of concerns relatives at their uniqueness private and confidentiel . 
honourable senators , at the évidence , the bill to Bill C - 6 has yeas objet of protect them information personnels recueillis by the sector private and , fell fact , the us permettre of rattraper them progress of health technology . 
since 1982 , health Act Act Act protection of health life privacy protège them information personnels détenus by the government federal . 
transport provinces apply are pourvues of textes semblables . 
however , he not fell paving not to even yeas them information détenus by the sector private . 
bye bearer regard , what Bill of Bill apply is longuement fact wait . 
we cannot devons not agir too vite , without wheel examiné at fond toutes them repercussions of unabated initiative . 
he not is not a field where the character private and confidentiel of them information détenus not is also important that gerrymandering of health health . 
health perception and Oceans concerns of health population fell matière of Donor and the treatment of them information sur la health are well actresses , but thin deserve of Welfare rappelées at the seen the foreign questions that I souhaite raise at propos of the bill to Bill No. 
streets a prime time , business patients croient that foreign information médicaux them regarding resteront confidentiels . 
ensuite , they estiment important to savoir damned utilisation their arranged réservée and at which these derniers uncovered releases , and they not veulent mostly not that these information soient divulgués at the foreign tiers without that they not fell soient informés and without that they not aient rose their agreed . 
finally , business patients palatable hesitate at révéler of them informations them regarding at them professionals of health health apply they apply interrogent Act the utilisation or health divulgation desdites informations . 
bye the paragraph 2 ) 1 ) the Government Bill of Bill , til entend by " Intelligence staff " everything Intelligence regarding a individu identifiable , at the exclusion of the name and the Government title of a employé of series organization and the foreign adresse and numéro of telephone of his instead of work . 
by conséquent , blunt information regarding dapper health or the treatment rose at a patient identifiable and foremost Intelligence regarding Casual care of health prodigués by a professionnel of health health identifiable revêtent , by definition , a uniqueness private . 
honourable senators , the Association medical canadienne , the Association dentaire canadienne and the other associations representative them professionals of health health apply are dites very préoccupées by the incidence négative that could wheel the bill to Bill C - 6 fell what who has trait at them information personnels and at them other activities sensibles liés at the system of health . 
commentator them honourable senators ' savent , the bill to Bill VI at facilitate and at promote the trade électronique fell protégeant them information personnels recueillis , utilisés or releases " streets the framework of activity commerciales " . 
he not has not been conçu fell songeant at the system of health . 
fell effect , I believe that course of them people cannot acclaimed not songé at the system of health at the moment of élaborer what Bill of Bill No. 
and what is what who fact that , streets series certaine measure - that he is difficult to determine - , the bill to Bill could wheel series incidence négative Act the system of health . 
even if the bill to Bill is axé Act the activité commerciale , he is obvious that til not saurait établir series distinction telle between celle - ci and the activité liée at them care of health that foreign dossiers of health feraient the objet of a treatment différent of them other dossiers . 
the objet , énoncé fell termes waves , the Day part 1 to the bill to Bill , analyzed that his application at them professionals of health health travaillant streets series congruent whose health principale function is Act Benefit - care of health , laughed of whereupon inquiéter . 
fell whereupon the bill to Bill influera he Act the treatment of them data recueillies at them purposes of health médecine préventive , the Government diagnosed médical and the Day research medical , based Act Benefit - Provincial care and based Act management of them services of care of health ? 
honourable senators I précise . 
i believe that he is impératif of clarify the bill to Bill C - 6 yeas satisfaire at four points importants . 
premièrement , the bill to Bill C - 6 doit comporter series definition claire of them information auxquels apply applies the right to the individu at Act life privacy . 
commentator I the ai fact observer , he not précise not streets damned measure these provisions apply appliquent at them information médicaux . 
by example , the alinéa 4 ) 1 ) has ) stipule that what Bill of Bill apply applies at blunt organization at the hook of them information personnels that she recueille , utilise or communique streets the framework of activity commerciales . 
what who constitue series activité commerciale not is not clearly défini . 
he seems that the snakes share of the principle that confirms excludes automatically them dossiers médicaux . 
however , where finit the activité commerciale and where commencent them care of health , confirms not is not clear to the everything . 
fell outre , he not there has aucune line directrice régissant Act circulation of them information médicaux between the établissement of health and the établissement commercial . 
deuxièmement , the bill to Bill C - 6 not protège not them information médicaux . 
the foreign rules repositories perhaps élaborées fell what who pertains them information médicaux afin of heed account the their nature spéciale . 
fell particular , the bill to Bill doit perhaps clarifié and amended afin of inclure , fell what who pertains them information médicaux , the foreign rules précises who mettront the accent Act Act protection of the right at Act life privacy and who garantiront that foreign information médicaux not soient releases that Act series basic sélective and below the control and with the consent informé of the patient . 
fell outre , blunt definition liée at Act Donor and at the utilisation of them information médicaux should inclure of them information identifiables , the foreign information without link permettant of identifier the patient , the foreign information anonymes and blunt combination of these types of information . 
the most , I query make remarquer that a récent report of the Council Advisory of the information sur la health has clearly underlined that blunt measure legislative rose trait at the respect to health life privacy and at Act protection of them information sur la health " should also inclure of them provisions claires interdisant the usage commercial secondaire of them information sur la health . " 
troisièmement , non only the bill to Bill C - 6 should inclure of them provisions particulières yeas them information sur la health , but he is also important that these provisions soient appliquées also at them sectors public and private . 
i recommends that these provisions soient basées Act the framework that fournit the Code of protection of them information personnels Act Act health formulé and passed by the Association medical canadienne . 
what code could constituer Act basic of health law gouvernant Act Donor , the utilisation and health divulgation of them information sur la health . 
quatrièmement , health part 2 of the bill to Bill C - 6 not précise not at quelles purposes them data électroniques liées at them care of health and at them dossiers médicaux palatable perhaps utilisées . 
the most , he not existe currently aucune rule , what who laisse Act door ouverte at toutes sortes of abus . 
honourable senators , I request your appui afin of veiller at what that these concerns soient réglées before that the bill to Bill C - 6 not poursuive his surveillance . 
the government has the opportunity , voire the obligation , the give at them Canadians to solides rights fell matière of respect to health life privacy relatively at them information sur la health . 
fell same time , he is the one interest vital to protect Act ability to transférer of them data at the foreign purposes of care of health legitimate and the encourage series meilleure management and intégration of our system of care of health . 
the what fact , the bill to Bill C - 6 is series measure legislative importante and necessary . 
he is however essentiel that we veillions at what that she réponde efficacement at them concerns exprimées by foreign members of health community of them care of health . 
i believe therefore that we devrions try to help the government at the committee fell apportant of them changes at what Bill of Bill , what who fell ferait series measure legislative still meilleure . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Kinsella , the debate is adjourned . ) 
bill to Bill of 1999 Act Act implementation fell implementation of conventions fiscales 
second reading - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Hervieux - Payette , P , seconded by the Honourable Senator Robichaud , P ( Le Acadie - Acadia ) , that the bill deloi S - 3 , Act mettant fell implementation a agreed , the foreign conventions and the foreign protocoles conclus between the Canada and the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , health Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzbékistan , health Jordanie , the Japan and the Luxembourg , fell standpoint of avoid them duplicates impositions and the prévenir the evasion fiscale fell matière of taxes Act the Income , authorized read series second once . 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
i tiens however at consigned at them honourable senators a country visé by what treaty and whose the behaviour raises the foreign questions regarding health relevance yeas the Canada ' maintain the foreign links with him . 
by conséquent , I hope that tomorrow or when the bill to Bill arranged appeared the committee of them Banking , he rereads fingertips là of them officials supérieurs of them Foreign Foreign fell measure of better respond at them questions regarding Casual country fell cause . 
the country whose I parle is the Ouzbékistan , series of them anciennes républiques soviétiques fell Asia centrale . 
streets a récent release fell date of the 20 October , health Human Rights Watch : 
... documente indépendamment a profil of arrest policy , the detention and the harassment of them members of them families of activistes political and the dissidents religieux at the surveillance of them six derniers months . 
he rereads has also much of preuves crédibles according lesquelles Act police hiding regularly of small quantités of drug or the munitions Act to them persons that she arrête yeas their allégeances political or religieuses . 
the steering executive of health Human Rights Watch yeas the Europe and the Asia centrale has déclaré : 
the government ' s Ouzbékistan prétend apply prepare at heed of them election libres and équitables everything fell plaçant them members of them families of the Opposition Act them verrous and fell apply débarrassant of health clé . 
what not is not là series way of achieve Act democracy . 
streets a another release diffusé the same day , health Human Rights Watch has déclaré : 
transport schools and Oceans universities of the Ouzbékistan refusent of ouvrir their doors at them musulmans Convey Act barbe and at them women Convey the chador . 
according unabated organization : 
the government ' s Ouzbékistan door atteinte of everywhere at Act freedom religieuse . 
the expulsion of students musulmans is a another aspect of unabated campaign . 
commentator if confirms not guardian not enough , the government ' s Canada , streets dapper own particulars explicative regarding the bill to Bill , said that : 
he not is not rare that foreign summarizing opposants and Oceans members of their family soient détenus and torturés . 
transport échanges trading apply are élevésà 18 million for $ fell 1988 . 
the Canada not has done nil investment majeur streets what country . 
aucune company canadienne not done to work of exploitation pétrolière or minière , what who seems perhaps them principales attractions of what country . 
ceux who there acclaimed songé soulignent that what is primarily the Environment commercial ouzbek who them tient at the gap . 
always according them notes of information , business companies Forces - upper technology which acclaimed réalisé of them sales fell Ouzbékistan acclaimed strokes much of evil at make sortir them devises Foreign of what country . 
according them data disponibles , he seems that what not authorized not the genus of them regions them more prometteuses yeas them investors Airports . 
each once that he has strokes affair at a regime répressif not rose not the intent of favouring a minimum of democracy , the Canada has always commitments Position , authorized by the foreign sanctions or by a boycottage quelconque . 
puisque he rereads has well little of commitment between the Ouzbékistan and the Canada , I cannot takers not why we devrions adopt a tel treaty at the hour actuelle . 
i hope that the committee arranged fell measure of prouver the contrary or at everything the least that he remembered penchera Act Act question car , at least that til me prouve Act necessity of a tel treaty yeas Act protection of a bon number of Canadians Act the Mifflin Plan them taxes , by example , I believe that he serait approprié of propose an amendment which retrancherait the treaty of the bill to Bill and the garderait at the gap also long that necessary . 
perhaps - perhaps the regime ouzbek comprendra he that the Canada is really sérieux when he défend them rights of health human and health democracy and that he not done not that repeat them paroles of them other . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , Mrs. the senator Hervieux - Payette is absente today today and what is she who has presented what Bill of Bill No. 
i cannot know not if the other honourable acclaimed something something at say at what topic . 
if what is the case , I cannot voudrais not me there opposer . 
however , if nil another senator not widow prendre Act parole , I move the Refer the bill to Bill at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Banking and the Government trade . 
the Honourable Consiglio Di Nino : 
puis - I poser series question ? 
we awakened received from nombreux bills of laws of unabated nature . 
i me remind that he rereads has few months at peine , we awakened been saisis of a bill to Bill similar who has been renvoyé at the committee of them Affairs Foreign . 
a certain number of questions , distinctes of celles of the senator Lynch - Staunton , specialist also been posées Robbie . 
why what Bill of Bill arranged he renvoyé at the committee of them Banking at the instead of the committee of them Affairs Foreign , commentator what guardian the case , he me seems , the bills of Bill precedents Act to them conventions fiscales ? 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
i believe that we contrevenons at the rules , honourable senators . 
his Honour the Speaker Acting ( the Honourable P . Derek Lewis ) : 
before the aborder what standpoint , we devrions adopt the bill to Bill fell second reading . 
the senator Hays : 
we devrions laisser Act parole at the Opposition Deputy of the Opposition . 
the senator Kinsella : 
yeas streamline , I proposerai the adjournment of the debate . 
the senator Hays : 
honourable senators , afin of clarify Act situation of them questions whose unabated House is saisie , with your leave , I vais withdraw blunt motion that I aurais avoided introduce durant mon intervention , who aurait porté referred to the bill to Bill at the committee . 
analyzed , we pourrons make place at Act motion of adjournment of the debate on the senator Kinsella . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Kinsella , the debate is adjourned . ) 
the speech of the Trône 
motion of Adopted of the Adresse fell response - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Kroft , seconded by the Honourable Senator Furey , Refer at the adoption of series Adresse at His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale fell response at the speech that Elle has prononcé lors of the opening of health second session of health trente - sixth législature . - 
( 4e day to health resuming the Government debate . ) 
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs : 
honourable senators , I ai strokes until at now the plaisir - ma faith , yes , health plupart of the time the plaisir - Request hear 11 speech of the Trône , activist at the Parliament dd that here same , at the Senate . 
that they aient been prononcés here or streets ma province natale of the Manitoba , they affichaient all Act same caractéristique . 
they étaient all a little waves . 
he tangibly understand that , the example their nature same , business speech of the Trône are rather waves . 
they are refreshed of belles paroles , but avares of details . 
i ai always éprouvé series certaine compassion yeas them Gouverneurs généraux and Oceans lieutenants - gouverneurs who repositories lire these speech . 
however , the présent speech of the Trône me has profondément touchée by gloomy because that he établit a nouveau program , a program yeas them children . 
he convient fort well that I parle of dictatorship today today car , commentator the has signalé Thursday last the senator Callbeck , we awakened célébré Act Journée national of the child Saturday last , the 20 November . 
commentator the savent them senators , fell 1993 , the government federal has désigné the 20 November Journée national of the child afin of commémorer two events historiques of the ONU , at savoir the adoption , the 20 November 1959 , the Day Declaration of them rights of the child and the adoption , the 20 November 1989 , the Day Convention relative at them rights of the child . 
transport young of today today are them leaders of tomorrow . 
yeas ensure at our children the meilleur departure possible streets Act life , we devons invest now streets the future , streets their future . 
transport experiences and Oceans recherches scientific montrent that the Prime development of a child détermine his success at the age adulte . 
bye the doorstep of the nouveau millennium , we devons see at what that our children possèdent them habiletés and Oceans benefits nécessaires yeas that our society authorized vigoureuse and prospère . 
transport children acclaimed need to our love , the our soutien and the our encouragement , but they acclaimed also need to occasions yeas learn . 
their needs fondamentaux repositories perhaps satisfaits . 
more earlier bearer after - afternoon , I lisais a speech of the senator Gill Act them aboriginal at the Canada . 
what is tragic , but them needs fondamentaux of them children aboriginal are rarely satisfaits . 
fell 1989 , all levels parties représentés at Act House of them Commons acclaimed adopted series resolution visant the Elimination of health poverty chez them children before the 2000 2000 . 
commentator the senator Cohen : knows , we analyzed fell November 1999 and , unfortunately , we awakened commitments to the backsliding by report at 1989 . 
however , I hope that , thanks at what speech of the Trône and at the budget which apply fell complements , business legislators pourront make the foreign progress at bearer regard . 
the blunt évidence , we cannot atteindrons not our objective yeas the 2000 2000 , but he tangibly espérer that we entamerons the millennium of the bon foot . 
health poverty touche all levels aspects of the development of a child , also well at court that at term term . 
confirms commence streets the Breast of health mother , with series mauvaise nutrition , and apply Turcot everything at the term of them years of Training , affectant all levels aspects of health growth and nuisant at the success . 
til not can apply wait at what that a child whose business needs fondamentaux - alimentation , housing and Clothing appropriés - not are not satisfaits puisse learn and apply épanouir . 
the most fell more , business programs of assistance social of them provinces invitent them bénéficiaires everywhere at the Canada at accept the Government work rémunéré . 
i cannot me oppose not at what that foreign people accomplissent a job who their convient . 
i believe that confirms is bénéfique yeas the image of se and yeas his own development . 
however , if , fell forçant them people at travailler , we cannot we préoccupons not to them care at give at them children , who arranged winner ? 
i know who arranged perdant . 
transport children uncovered perdants . 
these families viendront gonfler them statistics and Oceans assistés Cultural deviendront of them workers démunis . 
streets our planning , we devons absolument accorder Act priority at Act quality of them care at give at these children . 
nowhere share at the Canada ' salary minimum not is enough élevé yeas permettre same at ceux who acclaimed a employment at time plein of échapper at Act poverty . 
bye Winnipeg , fell 1999 , according a report récent of the Council attain of the course - perhaps Housing , a parent odyssey who has a odyssey child should travailler 80 hours by week yeas parvenir at the doorstep of health poverty apply he has a employment rémunéré at the salary minimum . 
bye Winnipeg , yeas series family who account two parents and two children , he particulars 118 hours of work by week yeas parvenir at the doorstep of poverty . 
honourable senators , he not there has that 168 hours streets series week . 
the credit for tax yeas children , a magnificent program overburdened Act foot by the government , has unfortunately been interprété streets certaines provinces commentator a system which their permettait of reduce them prestations of assistance social . 
the program has therefore amélioré the fate of them poor who travaillent , but he not has not relevé the Income of them assistés Cultural . 
transport children acclaimed always need to their parents . 
some of between us we demandons same if our children adults not acclaimed not always need to us . 
what is why the foreign programs commentator the Program of assistance préscolaire at them aboriginal , the Program Heritage of nutrition prénatale and the Program of Action originators yeas them children acclaimed all been essentiels yeas jeter them bases of a sain development at term term chez them children . 
i ai been very heureuse of find streets the speech of the Trône seven commitments at the topic of them children : the foreign prestations more généreuses yeas them congés of maternité and parentaux , a agreed federal - dd yeas better soutenir the development of them young children , series increase the Government income after tax - Provincial families , the foreign circles of work more conviviaux yeas them families , notamment streets the administration Public fédérale , health modernization of the right familial , series third injection of funds importante streets Act Benefit national yeas children and the renforcement of them opportunities for learning thanks at series expansion of Rescol . 
honourable senators , the exposé budgétaire not is not the mien , but , if I dentist Paul Martin at prepare his budget , business families poor who travaillent auraient right at toutes them réductions of tax . 
toutes these initiatives are constructives , honourable senators . 
fell particular , the speech of the Trône annonçait of them congés parentaux améliorés thanks at Act extension of health period of them prestations parentales versées by the regime of insurance - employment . 
we voudrons can - perhaps And of them changes fell what sense at the regime of insurance - employment . 
yeas the moment , concentrons - we however Act them congés parentaux . 
he remembered notional là of series initiative very positive , but I hope that , when government ' étudiera , he tiendra account the Government fact that foreign parents of today today are loans at partager Act responsibility . 
these congés not are not offerts sideshow at them women . 
transport Fathers acclaimed series chance merveilleuse of profiter of them congés parentaux . 
however , with Act bill actuelle Act the EI - employment , if health mother and the father voulaient profiter of the congé , composite of them two aurait series period of attente of two weeks . 
what is malheureux because that , personally , I query that davantage of Fathers Airports prennent Act maison fell main , even during the courtes périodes . 
personally , when I ai owed mood six weeks at the hospital at the moment of health birth of mon second child , the aînée not pouvait not me visiter and she and his father apply are much rapprochés because that what guardian mostly him who faces occupait of she . 
the afternoon - afternoon , when the chariot of friandises passait , I achetais series tablette of chocolat yeas ma daughter and I Act him écrivais series letter fell images , car she never Partnerships that three years , and I him faisais apporter by Hon. father , who is became his parent préféré during unabated period . 
i cannot ai su that a little after mon Return at Act maison that they mangeaient Act tablette of chocolat together streets our bed before the déjeuner . 
but whereupon that he fell authorized , at the surveillance of unabated period particulière of dapper life , mon husband is became very infertility at ma daughter aînée and their complicité dure still today today . 
health petite boyhood is series period critique yeas the bon development of the child , activist at court that at term term . 
transport children who acclaimed of them experiences positives at the surveillance of their petite boyhood réussissent better at the école , they acclaimed series meilleure estimated of eux - mêmes and they are better adaptés at Act life fell society . 
more later streets their lives , they acclaimed of meilleurs jobs , unless the problems Cultural and less of problems of health . 
they are less susceptibles of wheel of them bébés at the adolescence , they consomment less of drogues and they are less susceptibles of tomber streets Act criminalité . 
confirms we surprend - he really ? 
prenons the case of series petite daughter or the one petit garçon of five years typique who between at Act tongue . 
what is perhaps - perhaps dapper first or second experience of the école . 
streets the case of children of health class average , voire of series family pauvre possédant of excellentes skills parentales - yes , he rereads fell has - , when they iront at Act tongue , they sauront their name , where they vivent , their numéro of telephone , they connaîtront the alphabet , business couleurs and Oceans figures . 
these children are at a moment critique of the learning , the most important étant the learning of health Reading . 
Comparez confirms at them children who never familiar not them figures , anguishes the alphabet , anguishes them couleurs . 
blocks the departure , blocks the beginning of them classes , a group of children is désavantagé by report at a another . 
what is why the intervention streets Act first boyhood is whether importante yeas that we puissions inverser Act trend of them opportunities yeas these children - là . 
according series study that I ai lue recently , 28p. cent of them garçons manifestant a behaviour antisocial entrant fell tongue étaient délinquants at the age of 13 years , 28p. cent of between eux ! 
what is why a program of Action attain yeas them children is whether important . 
health promise of the government ' travailler with them provinces and Oceans territories at Act implementation fell implementation of a plan to Action of here December 2000 yeas strengthen the development of health first boyhood is essentiel . 
the program of Action attain yeas them children - series initiative fédérale , provinciale and territoriale - sharing number of objectives of health Journée national of the child . 
they adressent the same message . 
fell travaillant together , business Canadians arresting apply ensure that all levels children vivent streets a climate of love and the compréhension , that they soient considérés commentator of them persons and that they aient the opportunity to achieve their plein potentiel when they uncovered adults . 
streets the speech of the Trône is also announced Échanges Canada , a program visant at give at cent 40,000 young each year Act chance to vivre and the And streets of other regions of the Canada . 
damned merveilleuse experience ! 
i am series meilleure Canadienne because that I ai lived streets several regions of the country , and I know that condolences children the are also because that they acclaimed lived also streets several provinces and that they are capables of parler them two languages Languages of the Canada . 
no oublions not also them programs commentator Katimavik . 
honourable senators , at the surveillance of them ten prochaines days , a group of these young we rendra visit Act Act colline , and I you invite at parler at some of between eux . 
his Honour the Speaker Acting : 
i am désolé of interrupt the Honourable Senator , but his time to parole is elapsed . 
the senator Carstairs : 
puis - I wheel Act leave of pursue , honourable senators ? 
his Honour the Speaker Acting : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Carstairs : 
merci , honourable senators . 
these young who are visés by Katimavik not are not to them young very motivés destinés at aller at the university . 
what are the foreign young who never savent not too what that they submariners make . 
however , I dispel you say , after them wheel rencontrés at the incorrigible of them years , that after series year at the Breast of the program Katimavik , what are the foreign young very motivés who acclaimed learned our two languages Languages , who acclaimed collaboré at the foreign bills of services communautaires at the Canada and who acclaimed now the foreign bills yeas their future . 
what is what that he tangibly encourage at the Canada . 
honourable senators , streets the speech of the Trône , the government has also renouvelé his commitment to introduce at nouveau series bill Act them young Offenders . 
fell fact , health minister of health Howe has already presented at nouveau the bill to Bill Subcommittee Act désignation C - 3 . 
i vais examiner what Bill of Bill very carefully yeas veiller at what that we cannot soyons not too sévères . 
permettez - moi of citer a report of the 20 June 1995 - Government committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional at the topic of the bill to Bill C - 37 , amend Act Act Act them young Offenders , part 1 : 
several witnesses acclaimed maintenu that he fallait contrebalancer them concerns legitimate of the public at the hook of health violence chez them adolescents with the foreign information exacts Act them rate of criminalité and based on functioning of the system of justice yeas them young . 
the committee believes that anguishes them young anguishes the grandfather public not acclaimed interest at what that soient véhiculées of them inexactitudes Act Act fréquence of them crimes with violence commis by the foreign adolescents of same that Act the éventail of them mood . 
these perceptions erronées arresting susciter of them fears non fondées and pousser Act population at exiger of them measures to more fell more punitives , somewhat susceptibles of make disparaître them causes réelles of them crimes with violence commis by the foreign young . 
til entend constamment say that the rate of health criminalité chez them young is at Act hausse - what is the refrain cher at them Members réformistes - , that foreign young are the most fell more violent and that the foreign measures closest strictes apply imposent because that royal bill actuelle Act them young Offenders is too low . 
gold , honourable senators , according series récente publication of the Correctional Correctional of the Canada Convey Act to them data of the Centre Heritage of health statistique legal , streets the whole , the number of young who acclaimed been stir of series offence criminelle and who acclaimed comparu appeared a court yeas adolescents has diminué between 1992 and 1997 . 
when til considère them crimes violent commis by the foreign young at the échelle national , til not observe that series lightly increase . 
transport transfers to young at them courts yeas adults not acclaimed anguishes augmenté anguishes diminué . 
finally , health sévérité of them provisions at the hook of them young has augmenté ; contrairement at Act perception at the Breast of health population , business sentences infligées at them young are loin of Welfare clémentes . 
according series study that I ai lue recently , health peine average imposée at a jeune rose commis a crime guardian Superior at celle imposée at a adulte yeas Act same offence . 
gold , at the Manitoba , business three quarters of them members of bands not are not to them young , what are the foreign adults . 
honourable senators , the Canada envoie of them children fell prison at a rate two once supérieur at gerrymandering pratiqué streets Act plupart of them States of them States - U.S. , who possèdent the rate of incarceration the most élevé of everyone the Occident activist that fell what who pertains them adults that foreign young . 
fell Finlande , he not there has that 10 garçons âgés of less of 18 years fell prison , and what , based series population of five million for residents . 
bye the Canada , he rereads has 4 40,000 young fell detention Act series population of 31 million for residents . 
believes - til really that our young are six once and demie more méchants that foreign young of Finlande ? 
fell Norway , he not there has more of prison yeas children . 
honourable senators , the 30 at 70p. cent of them young Offenders are affligés of a type quelconque of difficulty of learning . 
bye the instead of durcir Act measure legislative regarding Casual young Offenders , we devrions affecter of them resources visant at résoudre them problems of them persons fell difficulty of learning during that thin are young . 
transport recherches montrent that foreign children who bénéficient of care and the genus education of upper quality blocks their jeune age are proportionnellement much less nombreux that foreign other at perhaps mêlés at the foreign crimes and at the foreign mood of violence , that what authorized commentator victims or commentator agresseurs . 
the Council attain of prevention of the crime has recommended the mener Act lutte against Act criminalité fell adoptant fell Prime instead of bons programs Cultural yeas them children . 
honourable senators , at the beginning of mon allocution , I ai mentioned that what guardian Saturday the tenth anniversary of the adoption of health Convention on them Nations Nations relative at them rights of the child . 
health convention traite of them rights of them children and the foreign young of less of 18 years . 
she recognizes also the role important to health family streets the education of them children . 
before Act convention of 1989 , fell vertu of the right international , a child guardian considéré commentator a objet auquel he fallait accorder of them care and the Day protection . 
health convention has amended unabated perception fell recognizing them rights of the child commentator human , and fell him accordant the right at Act freedom of expression , the association , the meeting , the religion and the Day life privacy . 
the Canada done the objet of criticism at the échelle international since 1989 yeas wheel négligé of abroger the article 43 of the Code criminal , who between fell conflict with the article 19 of health Convention on them Nations Nations . 
fell 1995 , the committee of them rights of the child of them Nations Nations has recommended that foreign châtiments corporels at the foyer or elsewhere soient interdits and has asked that the Canada revoie the article 43 at Act light of unabated recommendation . 
i am déçue of constater that he not is not done mention of the abrogation of the article 43 streets the speech of the Trône . 
transport media acclaimed announced yesterday that royal Minister of health Howe présentera unabated week of them changes at the Code criminal afin of protect davantage them animals against foreign mood of violence and Oceans abus . 
transport changes are destinés at reconnaître fell right that foreign animals not are not a well and that they existent fell activist that reassess . 
transport children are the foreign êtres uniques . 
they acclaimed need to our love , the our soutien and , by - dessus everything , the our advice . 
transport children acclaimed need to discipline , but he rereads has much of other façons of discipliner a child that the recourir at the foreign châtiments corporels . 
fell reality , the foreign studies acclaimed révélé that foreign châtiments corporels entraînent davantage , and non less , the violence . 
the government apply oriente streets Act good direction . 
blunt measure who VI at protect our children and at encourage their plein épanouissement and health réalisation of their potentiel is series measure positive . 
commentator series good teacher , I vais heed a relevé of notes at what topic . 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
i ai heard parler of them measures that the government prétend prendre yeas improve Act life of them aboriginal , the foreign women and the foreign Canadians handicapés , but I ai strokes beau écouter the most carefully possible , I cannot ai nothing heard at the topic of the fourth group : gerrymandering of them Canadians appartenant at series minorité visible . 
what is commentator if we étions 107 of health planet , the Government less Act planet telle that the government Present the envisage . 
i cannot ai however not been surprised . 
transport minorities visible not acclaimed never really figuré streets them priorities of the government . 
we cannot cynicism not part of what that the Prime Minister appelle pompeusement Act vision libérale of the nouveau millennium . 
i think that confirms apply explique by the fact that , contrairement at them women , we cannot attirons not the attention of the simple fact of our grandfather number . 
we cannot inspirons not non more of feelings of culpability commentator them persons disabilities . 
we cannot impotent not the standpoint of mire of them media commentator them aboriginal . 
bye the instead of dictatorship , he seems that we analyzed simply là fell activist that Noirs , Chinois , Vietnamiens , Indiens of them Indes orientales , Pakistanais , Nigérians , Sénégalais , Égyptiens , Libanais , Nicaraguayens , Boliviens , and cetera . 
we formons a group hétérogène of individus originaires of toutes them regions of the world . 
we formons a group of individus Incidence lesquels bon number luttent yeas apply adapt at their nouvelle earth of accueil tandis that the nombreux other are here since a century or more ; we appartenons all at the foreign minorities who essaient of surmonter them various forms of racism , the sectarisme and the intolérance auxquelles thin Cutbacks opposite streets their quotidien . 
he seems that nil of between us not is dignified of series attention particulière or not seems mériter Act moindre Gallery of interest or the considération of health share of the government . 
Étant rose unabated indifference inexplicable and inexcusable , he is the mon duty to prendre Act parole fell unabated enceinte today today . 
he has shirts series part petite but vitale of our community non représentée and without Senators . 
i prends therefore Act parole , during a bref moment , afin of parler of the case of them minorities visible appeared the Senate . 
honourable senators , I query remind at the government that foreign members of them minorities visible are also the foreign citizens of our wonderful country . 
fell dépit of health difference of health colour of their peau , the Day form of their yeux , the their accent or the their coutumes , they Cutbacks part intégrante of our grande family canadienne . 
he not tangibly not them négliger anguishes their manquer of égards , commentator til the has manifestement fact streets the speech of the Trône . 
according them derniers sondages , 32p. cent of them residents of Toronto are the foreign members of minorities visible , everything commentator 31p. cent of them residents of Vancouver , 15p. cent of them residents of Calgary , 12p. cent of them residents of Montreal and 7p. cent of them residents of Halifax . 
bye the surveillance of them prochaines years , these figures submariners still augmenter . 
statistique Canada introduces that he rereads fingertips something 7 million for members of minorities visible at the Canada fell 2016 . 
if tel is the case , they représenteront 20p. cent of health population canadienne . 
fell dépit of their number always croissant , business members of them minorities visible are widely referendums at the gap of the flot Main of health society . 
honourable senators , regardez autour of you . 
transport minorities visible représentent 11p. cent of our population . 
représentent - thin 11p. cent of the Senate or the Day House of them Commons ? 
and that fell is - he streets them forces Armed , the Order judicial or the industry bancaire ? 
combien of chairmen of university connaissez - you who soient members of minorities visible ? 
how apply fact - he that royal SRC not seems not find the members of minorities visible yeas prendre share at ses nombreuses tribunes of discussion and at ses nombreux shows the expert . 
how confirms apply fact - he , fell effect ? 
the exclusion of members of minorities visible of their fair share of them jobs is a phenomenon who touche all levels sectors of our society . 
health function Public of the Canada fell is a excellent example . 
the Department of health Défense national account less of 500 members of minorities visible Act a total de17 40,000 employees civilians , and the Correctional Correctional of the Canada fell account at peine 300 Incidence ses 12 40,000 employees . 
health situation is still more honteuse at them échelons supérieurs . 
honourable senators , unless the 3p. cent of them cadres of health function Public of the Canada are members of minorities visible . 
til me said that , at the exception of them persons nommées by décret , he not there has , streets blunt Act function Public , nil Subcommittee - Minister member of series minorité visible . 
fell fact , the last aurait commitments dapper retirement he rereads has two decades ! 
that til there think . 
he rereads has surely more of 100 Subcommittee - ministers streets Act function Public , and they are all of race blanche ! 
otherwise said , nil of them more of 9 40,000 members of minorities visible that I ai mentionnés he rereads has a instant not possède them qualities requises yeas devenir Subcommittee - Minister . 
not a odyssey of between eux not possède the instruction , the experience and the savoir - make yeas exercer these duties . 
what is difficult at croire ! 
however , what not is not series question of time ; what is series question of attitude . 
authorized levels leaders of health function Public of the Canada croient fell the equity fell matière of employment , authorized they not there croient not . 
well honnêtement , étant rose their bilan , I cannot think not that they there croient . 
honourable senators , health function Public not is not Act Gotcha at refuser of ouvrir ses doors at them members of minorities visible . 
health same situation règne streets our own cour . 
prenons series minute yeas réfléchir at Act dernière once where we awakened seen a employé of the Senate which faisait part of series minorité visible . 
if you êtes commentator moi , unabated minute could fell devenir two or three . 
the fact is that , according the office of the Clerk , only 1,2p. cent of them employees of the Senate are members of minorities visible . 
confirms represents a total of six persons Act 490 employees , streets series institution which is censée help at give the example at the other . 
i mentionne these two institutions commentator examples , but he rereads fell has well - other . 
the exodus problem , according moi , what is that fell not agissant not , til renforce the idea that he not is not necessary to agir . 
fell of other termes , til apply said that if til not done nothing , the problem disparaîtra of him ? same . 
honourable senators , we awakened already seen , with the referendum at the Quebec and today today , with Act fishing Act Act Coast is , that series telle approach not conduit that at the foreign problems . 
til refuses at them minorities visible of them débouchés équitables fell matière of employment . 
we devrions fell parler , obtain the opinion of them intéressés and find the foreign façons of surmonter the problem . 
prétendre that confirms not existe not not rule nothing ; pourtant , what is exactly what that we cynicism . 
health same something apply product streets the field of them relations raciales . 
transport Canadians aiment at croire at wrongly that they vivent streets a country later compatissant . 
he not there has not to émeutes raciales here . 
transport assassins not abattent not to them leaders of them communaut minoritaires . 
transport Noirs not are not battus at death or almost by the foreign bands of policiers the term of series road or agressés sexuellement streets them wards of bain of them positions of police . 
everyone the world apply entend and he rereads has the Government space yeas all . 
the odyssey problem with confirms , what is that what not is not true . 
the Canada not is not series Arcadie of l' ère modern ; what not is not true non more than all levels Canadians aiment their next . 
fell fact , very often , the love fact place at the animosité , at Act méfiance , at Act crainte and at Act haine , yes , health haine . 
the foreign crimes motivés by Act haine are commis at the Canada , even if , fortunately , what not is not at Act same échelle that at them States - U.S. . Quoi that he fell authorized , confirms apply product . 
she has been battue and noyée . 
why ? 
because that she guardian member of series minorité visible . 
we awakened of them groups sectaires at the Canada also : the Ku Klux Klan , the White Power Canada , the Nationalist Party of Canada and the Heritage Front . 
transport newspapers and health television not parlent virtually not to health issue . 
why ? 
because that royal majority of them Canadians not are not intéressés . 
yeas them Blancs , the equity fell matière of employment , the racism and Oceans crimes motivés by Act haine are the foreign questions intellectuelles rather than practices and confirms apply comprend . 
fell effect , business Blancs are rarely of them cibles . 
honourable senators , business minorities visible not cherchent not a treatment Special . 
thin not demandent not to faveurs who are refusées at the other . 
thin veulent travailler , wheel of them jobs rémunérateurs , élever their children streets a environment course , their give Act possibility of wheel series life saine and prospère , commentator everything the world . 
commentator them other , thin veulent perhaps acceptées yeas what that thin are and that the snakes not tienne not account the their countries of origin or the Day colour of their peau . 
we awakened assurément fact suffisamment of progress these dernières decades yeas that confirms authorized possible . 
perhaps - perhaps am - I still là too optimiste . 
honourable senators , I ai fact at the beginning of the year a speech Act Act situation of health community noire at the Canada . 
streets condolences remarques , I ai said that I doutais fort that we arrivions really at the equality of mon vivant . 
after what speech , something a is venu me ask why I continuais at defend condolences ideas when , streets mon for intérieur , I cannot croyais not that foreign things allaient changer . 
i ai responded that I cannot avais not really the choice . 
what is series responsibility that I accepte volontiers fell dépit of them reserves that I dispel wheel . 
honourable senators , that he me authorized licences of wheel few reserves . 
permettez - moi of fell douter . 
i observe that the foreign stéréotypes négatifs persistent at what day streets Act society canadienne and streets them media at the hook of them minorities visible . 
the access at some jobs rest subrepticement plafonné . 
transport members of them minorities visible continuent of apply make traiter of nègres , the chinetoques , the sales Pakistanais , and the asiates . 
i cannot am therefore not persuadé that foreign things aient solemn much changed . 
health response not is not streets a bill to Bill - what is obvious . 
we awakened Act Charter canadienne of them rights and freedoms , health Act canadienne Act them rights of health human and health Act Act Act citizenship canadienne . 
pourtant , business préjugés and the racism persistent . 
transport réformistes soutiennent haut and fort that foreign minorities visible devraient perhaps reléguées at the footnotes - plan , cachées . 
the administration Public fédérale emploie much too little of minorities visible , at the prétexte that til not saurait précipiter a bill to unabated envergure . 
the foreign members of groups sectaires publient regularly of them documents haineux Refer at susciter the intolérance racial and ethnic , health violence and well - other feelings hostiles . 
honourable senators , health exodus solution at the problem of the racism and the foreign préjugés réside streets the education and Oceans échanges . 
transport people repositories learn at apply connaître . 
they repositories vaincre their peurs mutuelles . 
yeas confirms , he their tangibly of the information . 
what is the information which allows the éliminer them soupçons and Oceans stéréotypes . 
she établit of them links between them members of health collectivité and favorise series meilleure compréhension . 
however , the information at she Gotcha not can régler all levels problems . 
he doit there wheel a commitment . 
he tangibly that all soient convaincus that foreign minorities visible acclaimed right at all levels benefits of health citizenship . 
what is confirms who is at the heart of the problem . 
i believe that he revient fell part at the government federal - favoriser bearer commitment . 
series part of dapper responsibility BNA at us driver , fell activist that country , toward the harmonie and the respect mutuel . 
what is at the government ' tracer Act marche at suivre . 
however , he not the fact not . 
the Prime Minister and his cabinet acclaimed decided to no not heed account the Day question of them minorities visible . 
they Cutbacks commentator if she never existait not . 
his Honour the Speaker Acting : 
honourable senators , I regret to duty interrupt the Honourable Senator , but his time to parole is elapsed . 
aurait - he Act leave of continue ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Oliver : 
merci , honourable senators . 
their problems not deserve not our attention . 
find the foreign solutions yeas éliminer the racism , business inégalités and health discrimination , what not is not series priority national . 
the blunt évidence , I cannot dispel perhaps the agreement with unabated attitude , and what is unabated Opposition who me pousse at intervene at the Senate today today . 
fell ending , honourable senators , I dirai that if the government not wants not apply attaquer at unabated question , we pourrions the make here . 
seen Act diversity of them connaissances and health rich experience of them senators , I am convaincu that a debate Act Act place to them minorities visible at the Canada donnerait instead at the précieux testimony . 
if we désirons ensuite pursue the study of health issue , a subamendment - Committee on the committee of them Affairs payroll could perhaps formé at bearer effect . 
his mandate could comporter series tournée of the country during laquelle he recueillerait and compilerait them opinions them more at day Act the Employment at the Breast of them minorities visible . 
til could also former a committee Joint of health House of them Commons and the Government Senate yeas ensure a suivi at them findings of the committee Daudlin of 1984 . 
you you souviendrez that what committee Partnerships examined Act participation of them minorities visible at Act life of health society canadienne . 
damned that authorized Act road empruntée , honourable senators , we cannot devons not suivre the example of the government fell restant muets . 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
honourable senators , I tiens at congratulate them senators who acclaimed presented and supported Act motion of Adopted of the Adresse fell response at the speech of the Trône car they acclaimed all sides spoke with eloquence at the name of their provinces and regions . 
the funding for health research and health méthode choisie yeas ensure what funding arresting wheel a impact Act Act vitality same of a country and determine the future of his economy and the Hon. system of health , analyzed that the course - perhaps the ses citizens . 
well that I sois satisfaite of the speech of the Trône , I tiens at 209 briefly series of ses flaws . 
what is what that the price Nobel John Polanyi appelait Act " marketing of health science " . 
lors of series récente allocution appeared Act Corporation Royal , he has critiqué unabated trend fell affirmant that she ruine them universities Forces and pousse them more brilliant scientific of the country at apply expatrier . 
he aurait avoided add that unabated trend contributes also at the collapse of health function Public who fut , at a moment rose , davantage centrée Act the meilleur interest of them consumers and the Day population that Act them concerns of them companies . 
the lauréat of the price Nobel apply fell is commitments at Act policy of funding for health research of them governments federal and provinciaux , who acclaimed fact of them universities of them succursales of the industry . 
the Canada is allé too loin , has he said , fell choisissant Act research industrialisée at them dépens of health research systémique or fondamentale . 
the exodus at them States - U.S. of scientific and the researchers of Prime plan is also the outcome , the Government less fell part , the unabated policy little judicieuse car , enough étrangement , business States - U.S. apply are referendums at distance of unabated industrialisation of health research . 
bye them States - U.S. , only 6p. cent of health research universitaire are financés by the sector private . 
i hope that the initiative annoncée streets the speech of the Trône at the hook of them Instituts of research fell health amènera a change the foreign values Act what standpoint . 
transport farmers acclaimed affiché unabated year - Provincial récoltes records or almost . 
fell Saskatchewan only , they acclaimed product 27,8 million for tonnes of céréales , the oléagineux and the crops spéciales . 
and pourtant , their gagne - pain and their mode of life are menacés fell part sinon totalement because that foreign grants fédérales acclaimed been réduites at series fraction of what that foreign governments européens and validate donnent at their propres producers céréaliers . 
the Canada not subventionne not these growers agricultural . 
if the silence of the speech of the Trône guardian cruel , health response to the government at Act crisis streets them weeks who acclaimed suivi évoquait the " silence of them agneaux " . 
transport premiers ministers of the Manitoba and the Day Saskatchewan , who are flocked at Ottawa , laughed been sommairement renvoyés . 
the minister federal - Government Agriculture has announced that a amount Supplementary of 170 million for $ serait added at the Program of assistance fell case of catastrophe liée at the Income Farm , communément appelé ACRA . 
what figure represents less of 15p. cent of what that foreign premiers ministers of the Manitoba and the Day Saskatchewan jugeaient necessary . 
what spring , the government manitobain has dégagé 79 million for $ yeas venir fell assistance at them farmers victims of inondations . 
he said now that he not is not fell measure of verser dapper quote - share . 
health Saskatchewan trouve also the arrangement impraticable and songe at apply withdraw the Government program ACRA . 
even if them provinces pouvaient contributing still davantage , the problem , what is that at the évidence , the program ACRA is loin of Welfare at Act hauteur . 
fell date of the 25 October , the program not Partnerships déboursé that 227 million for $ , authorized less of 13p. cent of what that the minister qualifie of measure of assistance to 1,78 1.1 of $ . 
commentator he has been already mentioned streets unabated enceinte , more of health half of them demandes faites by foreign residents of the Manitoba and the Day Saskatchewan acclaimed been rejetées . 
Seneca what that Morris Dorasch said at what propos streets Agri - Week : 
when he paie , the program ACRA offers a financing at them mauvaises persons , yeas them mauvaises reasons and the Day mauvaise way . 
i query reprendre a standpoint who has been soulevé at the surveillance of the debate on emergency . 
transport farmers repositories obtain the Government money before Christmas . 
apply they not fell obtiennent not , they not uncovered not fell measure of ensemencer at the spring . 
what is also simple that confirms . 
til can their offer to the assistance to toutes sortes of façons , that what authorized by the countdown of the Income net , business taxes or health reduction legislative of them tarifs of transportation that foreign farmers repositories payer and who devraient , the afternoon of them studies , perhaps réduits of at the least 5 Expenditures Act tonne . 
the minister of them Finance we took confirmed that the money not lack not . 
the problem apply trouve therefore at the level of health volonté policy . 
what is why them agencies of the West essaient of persuade the Prime Minister of venir constater by him ? same levels consequences of unabated crisis fell rendant visit at them sectors agricultural of the West . 
he has right at Act same protection of health share of the government ' s Canada that foreign other producers obtiennent streets of other countries with lesquels he is fell competition . 
today today , our producers of wheat obtiennent less of the tiers of them grants whose jouissent their competitors fell Europe . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate has reproché at them provinces of refuser of contributing davantage at the program ACRA . 
i dois make remarquer that at them States - U.S. also well that fell Europe , what is the palier the most élevé of government which finance them grants . 
nil state validate not offers the programs of subsidies agricultural who vaillent Act peine of Welfare mentionnés . 
the superbudget of the Union European is gerrymandering who faces applies at them grants agricultural . 
the foreign thousands of farmers and their families are forcés of quitter Act earth , and til we said that what is Act consequential inexorable of the progress technologique , but the industrialisation streets what sector not is not inexorable and not constitue not a progress . 
the time is perhaps - perhaps venu yeas them farmers to express their own message durum . 
purchase of them intrants who Cutbacks augmenter Act production and Oceans revenues from the Canada fell devises Foreign thanks at them exports , but non the Income net of them farmers , what is series mauvaise affair who never accorde aucune value at them initiatives and at the labeur of them farmers . 
the problem of health family Farm is summary streets a section that I ai received dernièrement of mon intrépide Leader . 
i voudrais fell lire a passage : 
until at everything recently , health plupart of them people streets the world étaient nourris by foreign grandchildren farmers who produisaient various foods of basic yeas approvisionner them communaut locales and Oceans markets premises . 
but with them rules of the OMC , business grandchildren farmers disparaissent . 
streets series grande part of the world ( including including at them States - U.S. ) , the foreign companies internationales acclaimed commitments fell main of other elements of the Agriculture and utilisent much of products chemical and now Act biotechnologie . 
transport small exploitations acclaimed yielding Act place at the immenses étendues of monocultures of luxe destinées at the export . 
and foremost what transportation of denrées alimentaires détériore the Environment . 
everyone what transportation of foods by bateau , by camion or by avion at them four coins of health planet fact augmenter Act consumption of energy , worsening Act pollution of them océans and the Government atmosphère and contributes at them changes climatiques [ ... ] . 
he tangibly more of emballages , what who entraîne series more grande exploitation of them Forestry . 
he tangibly of nouvelles infrastructures . 
and , the blunt way , business foods products industriellement are less sains , contiennent of them products chemical who polluent the soil and the water and posent of them problems of health Public . 
by conséquent , not not protect the exploitation Farm , what is sacrifier series ressource précieuse . 
the elsewhere , the exploitation Farm not is more petite . 
bye the Canada , she can make the 10 40,000 at 20 40,000 hectares . 
the senator Carstairs has spoke with much of eloquence of the Program of Action attain yeas them children and the Government importance of the education streets Act petite boyhood . 
i him dirai simply that , if she wants propose series nouvelle once series Modified at the Code criminal Act them châtiments corporels , I serai heureuse of appuyer series telle Modified . 
when I siégeais at the council scolaire , at the Manitoba , we awakened éliminé these châtiments streets the regulation . 
permettez - moi of say a word at the topic of other elements of the program which no apply concrétiseront can - perhaps not quickly . 
analyzed , fell June 1997 and during Act campaign électorale , he has been said that a nouveau government Liberal établirait of them centres of excellence yeas ensure the course - perhaps the foreign children and débloquerait a financing of 20 million for $ Act five years . 
series trentaine of months later later , nil centre not has yet been overburdened Act foot . 
health issue of them garderies is still more importante . 
i voudrais parler of two reports récents yeas we remind why we cannot devons not négliger them services of Custody and why we awakened need to a system attain . 
the Prime , and the senator Carstairs there has done allusion , what are them nouvelles preuves neuroscientifiques who établissent that foreign three premières years of life of the child acclaimed of them repercussions Act dapper ability to learning , his behaviour and dapper health durant blunt dapper life . 
no not give at the child a bon departure streets Act life , what is what who crée the exodus deficit of matière grise at the Canada , not the exodus of them cerveaux . 
deuxièmement , the report fact ressortir that foreign investment publics streets them programs apply adressant at them very young children are also importants that foreign investment streets the education primaire , secondaire and Superior and streets Act health . 
troisièmement , the report établit that foreign communities réussissent very efficacement at integrate them programs provinciaux and fédéraux at the level local . 
what report , commentator much of other before him , remind at them leaders political that , run they négligent them services of Custody , they the Cutbacks at them risks of health society . 
he request at the government federal - investir3,5 billion to $ streets a system attain of garderies of quality and affordable fell partnership with them parents and Oceans governments provinciaux and territorial . 
that rapporterait a tel investment ? 
according the report : 
the nombreux programs Cultural soutiennent them families , but them services of Custody constitute the armature of all these programs . 
transport services of Custody are the program which recoupe at Act once Act security of the Income and Oceans services . 
til has démontré at maintes occasions that foreign services of Custody are the élément essentiel of health participation of them parents , mostly of them mothers , at Act population active . 
the improvement of health participation of them mothers at Act population active is essential if the snakes wants reduce Act poverty infantile . 
Michael McCracken , the Infometrica , is allé still more loin and has calculé the number of jobs pouvant perhaps créés . 
series reduction of a 1.1 of $ of them taxes Act the Income of them particuliers créerait approximativement 9 40,000 jobs at the cost of 96 40,000 Expenditures by employment . 
a 1.1 of $ 3.26 at them services of Custody créerait 46 40,000 jobs at a cost of 8 600 Expenditures by employment . 
what is the elsewhere a calcul enough triste because that he shows that foreign workers of garderies not gagnent not enough cher . 
however , what are là of them facts bruts . 
health journalist Linda McQuaig we said that Health Canada has élaboré a bill to program attain of garderies . 
however , he seems that the government ' s Canada not défende not what program with much of vigueur and that he not fell fact not Act promotion . 
the most , he not is not done mention streets the speech of the Trône of health protection of health health of them children against foreign threats environnementales . 
permettez - moi of you give a example . 
we savons that foreign incinérateurs municipal , certaines industries and Oceans people who Cutbacks brûler of the lumber treaty émettent of them dioxines streets the Environment . 
we savons that the foreign footsteps of unabated substance chimique very toxique apply trouvent streets our foods . 
pis still , til fell trouve streets the milk maternel at the foreign niveaux quarante once supérieurs at Act concentration streets a steak . 
series opportunity fell gold apply is présentée , évidemment , at the surveillance of the debate Act the bill to Bill C - 32 , yeas veiller at what that foreign dioxines soient progressivement bannies and convince them municipalities , business governments provinciaux and Oceans businesses of modify their processes industriels . 
the government has also raté the opportunity to make Evidence of leadership fell négociant a treaty international of ban the foreign dioxines afin that foreign Canadians soient protected against the transportation atmosphérique Act to longues distances of them dioxines and the other products chemical persistants . 
however , he not is not too later - til can always agir . 
streets the speech of the Trône , he is said that the foreign measures uncovered prises Act them pesticides . 
these measures apply Cutbacks wait since long , car he existe now something 6 40,000 products formulés who are enregistrés at the Canada . 
gold , commentator the Auditor General ' has underlined , aucune donnée not is recueillie Act the utilisation of them pesticides and we cannot connaissons not non more quels are all their ingrédients , car seuls them ingrédients actifs repositories perhaps officially enregistrés , Robbie that foreign huiles or solvants toxiques utilisés commentator other composantes demeurent secrets . 
transport effects of them pesticides Act them children not are not mesurés . 
seuls them effects Act them adults the are . 
his Honour the Speaker Acting : 
i regret to interrupt the senator , but his time to parole is elapsed . 
the senator Spivak : 
puis - I finishing condolences observations , honourable senators ? 
his Honour the Speaker Acting : 
is - what the agreement , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Spivak : 
he not apply notional là that the few - unes of them flaws of health Act Act them products antiparasitaires of 1969 , who is gravement dépassée . 
he rereads has five years , the government has rendu public the " Book mauve " , streets lequel he has proposed a nouveau system réglementaire , recognizing the conflict of interests inherent of Agriculture Canada , who notional at Act once commentator promoteur and commentator body of regulatory of them products antiparasitaires . 
the power to regulatory has been transféré at the minister of health Health . 
five years later later , aucune bill not has yet been présentée . 
commentator the dirait T . S . Eliot , perhaps - til apply wait at what that nothing not vienne apply interposer between Act journalistic and the Action ? 
fact ironique , if the government has recognized the conflict of interest who existait at the level of them pesticides , he refuses to see the conflict of interest who existe at the level of them questions of health safety alimentaire and the Government environment . 
the Agency canadienne of inspection of them foods , by example , promotrice of health biotechnologie , run is trouvée fell situation of conflict when she apply is seen confier , by the bill to Bill C - 32 , health responsibility to the assessment of the impact Act the Environment of health manipulation biologique of them plantes and the foreign animals . 
what guardian logiquement the role of Environnement Canada . 
the another question whose I voudrais parler briefly , what is celle of the change climatique . 
the speech of the Trône said that the government travaillera with them other ordres of government yeas adhere the commitment commitments by our country at Kyoto . 
yeas ceux who auraient need that til the their remind , the commitment commitments at Kyoto guardian series way yeas them country , there including the Canada , who never specialist not respecté them commitments commitments at Rio of sauver Act opposite . 
voilà close to series decade that foreign country acclaimed convenu of reduce them emissions of gas at 2:30 of greenhouse and the Canada , between other countries , not has yet établi nil plan . 
what that I veux say is very simple . 
the cost of them dégâts causés by foreign disasters Natural streets the world double all levels five at ten years . 
fell 1960 , they apply chiffraient at least the 10 billion to $ by 2000 . 
bye présent , they apply chiffrent at more of 70 billion . 
the 2000 last , business compagnies of assurances at the Canada acclaimed owed payer 1.5 1.1 of $ . 
the Honourable Normand Grimard : 
i ai mené ma career of lawyer fell Abitibi . 
i me am same mesuré , lors of series élection fédérale , and confirms yeas mon more grandfather malheur , at Gilles , the son of Réal , commentator til the appelait all là - bas . 
today today , he remains 38 days before the ouvrir the champagne that much dégusteront the 31 December yeas fêter , at midnight , the passage streets a another century and a another millennium . 
pourtant , business fruits importés of them States - U.S. at gros price , who garniront the plateau , rappelleront at several that they not arresting more voyager autant that before at the outside of the country . 
fell effect , the dollar Heritage has descended of the tiers of dapper value since them years 70 , whose series good part durant them three dernières years . 
transport employees ordinaires are payés fell $ Airports . 
their patrons , who exportent davantage at them States - U.S. , voyagent . 
during that foreign biens - nantis profitent , business grandchildren are at the regime car their salary vaut 50 Subcommittee yeas each dollar gagné by foreign Americans , and they repositories payer 1,50 Expenditures yeas chacune of their importations fell provenance of them States - U.S. . 
i know that the snakes paving me tell : " Tu viens of the Abitibi . 
eh well , non ! De a side , he not is not question of saturer the market artificiellement of devises . 
but the Government another , I constate that the speech of the Trône not apporte nothing at ceux who faces inquiètent of health health of our dollar . 
the government not seems guère apply énerver . 
the 2000 last , the Prime Minister apply limitait at déclarer that what not is not grave if them touristes Airports not arresting apply tribute at them States - U.S. , puisque they iront at the Brunswick - Brunswick . 
i am well fell favour of them Canadians touristes chez eux of thanking . 
i reconnais that series economy well gérée commence by se - even , but I tiens at say that I cannot aime not non more the espèce of résignation who BNA at say that if them Canadians arresting aller at the Brunswick - Brunswick or , at what account - là , everywhere elsewhere at the Canada , they not acclaimed not at apply plaindre . 
damned inspiration and breaching dynamisme trouve til streets the speech of the Trône ? Position response is simple : the foreign parcelles and the foreign miettes . 
yeas fell create , he particulars reduce them taxes . 
gold , each once that the snakes interroge the Prime Minister and ses ministers at what propos , they trouvent always the foreign reasons yeas retarder the moment of agir . 
bye the contrary , the Canada tolère a rate of unemployment élevé by report at gerrymandering of our voisin of the south , a burden fiscal accablant , series disette of liquidités and series absence of jobs yeas them young . 
comble of everyone , our cerveaux them more talentueux émigrent at them States - U.S. yeas two reasons : the foreign meilleurs salaires , because that payés fell money validate , and less of taxes at payer . 
he rereads has also the nombreux cerveaux étrangers who refusent of travailler at the Canada yeas them mêmes reasons . 
Peter C . Newman , a grandfather writer and observer érudit , has written during the foreign decades Act the economy canadienne . 
streets a section released streets Act section Affairs - Government Ottawa Citizen du17 November 1999 , Rand Newman has said that the chairman of Nortel Networks , John Roth , Partnerships reason when he has déclaré recently that the rate of tax Act the Income of them particuliers fell vigueur at the Canada provoque the exodus at them States - U.S. of them academic them more competent and brilliant of our country . 
Koppel . Newman has said that , streets the last numéro of the Ivey Business Journal of health University of Western Ontario , John Roth has comparé unabated loss at celle of Gretzky of health upper technology . 
who more is , selonM. Roth , only 28 the foreign 400 cadres supérieurs of Nortel habitent at the Canada . 
honourable senators , you prostituted certainly received yesterday , everything commentator moi , a release of the Cercle attain of them journalists , yeas we announce that gerrymandering whose I viens of you parler , John Roth , President and chief of health direction of Nortel Networks , donnera series conference Wednesday , the 1er December 1999 , at Ottawa . 
the thème of dapper conference is the suivant : " Pourquoi the Canada loses he non only ses more grands talents and ses positions them better rémunérés , but also ses chefs of file of the industry ? " 
therefore , based a certain plan , the government répand series half - truth . 
we vendons 85p. cent of our exports at them States - U.S. and a dollar low we advantage at what level . 
but the revers of health bobsled , what is that the government escamote and refuses to révéler that we achetons also 75p. cent of our importations of them States - U.S. and that we devons payer almost 1,50 Expenditures Heritage yeas each dollar validate . 
these baisses cycliques of the dollar engloutissent of them amounts extremely importants of our wheel . 
the foreign States - U.S. , at the surveillance of them six premiers months of 1999 , we awakened importé yeas 25,8 billion to $ fell véhicules automobiles , pièces of rechange and equipment roulant , analyzed that yeas close to 22 billion to $ fell bouilloires and machinerie mécanique yeas Act grande industry . 
series another composante essential to our importations is the équipement électrique and Oceans appareils of registration yeas lesquels we awakened versé11,7 billion to $ at them States - U.S. fell six months . 
according series another study , the price of them magazines trillion vendus at the Canada has augmenté of 17p. cent at the surveillance of health dernière year . 
the most , when we vendons at them States - U.S. our Contents premières , whose our Railway and our aluminium fell vrac , we them rachetons very often intégrées streets them products finis , fell versant series double pénalité if our dollar is low . 
streets our Custody - manger , the price of them fruits and the foreign légumes , fell majority of importation américaine , has augmenté of 30p. cent since 1992 , Robbie that gerrymandering of them céréales has augmenté of almost 25p. cent . 
we glorifions our voisinage with them States - U.S. yeas describe our mode of life , similar at the their , and fell same time we ourselves servons of them States - U.S. yeas we distinguer , réaffirmant at which wants the hear our identity own . 
the trade at the detail , the transportation aérien , business sports , perhaps awakened - we enough heard parler of them problems of the hockey majeur auCanada - Status research scientifique , business Arts , health television , health culture and the edition we prouvent that we résistons evil at the attrait validate . 
the government has said , until here , that the rate of loses low - Government dollar Heritage favorisait them exports . 
unabated faiblesse of the dollar créée a élément of them more néfastes of instability . 
he me seems important to souligner Subcommittee a another angle that foreign Americans non only visitent our country , but that they are also fell train of the purchase comptant , at Act pièce and fell bloc , well that he not authorized not at sell . 
they Cutbacks main basse Act our businesses because that their price is ridiculement bas fell reason for health piètre health of our dollar , pardonnez - moi , more low same that " justice piastre at Caouette " . 
streets a section of Equipment Presse of the 16 October last , til fact say àM. Mundell that royal loss of the tiers of health value of the dollar Heritage since 25 years équivaut at series reduction national of salary . 
the réputé économiste qualifie series telle dévaluation of stupidité . 
he moved , fell outre , at the Canada ' abandonner dapper policy of fluctuation Monetary and the adopt a rate of loses fixed with the dollar validate . 
Richard Harris , professor of economy at the University Simon Fraser of health British - British , supports unabated fixation and apply sciences streets Act net minorité who never there voit that the foreign benefits . 
a tel blocage not créée not the unanimously . 
no étant not économiste , I cannot veux nothing recommander . 
however , I know that foreign hikes and Oceans baisses of the dollar provoquent of them enrichissements instantanés . 
combien of our citizens , who acclaimed less of flair yeas détecter them humeurs of health météo economic , run appauvrissent also ! 
i cannot dispel not penser at them premiers without éprouver of health tristesse yeas them seconds . 
these variations subites and prononcées of the huard acclaimed a mauvais effect psychologique . 
fell effect , dois - I remind that 85p. cent of our exports submariners at them States - U.S. , but that 75p. cent of our importations fell 6,000 also ? 
that the snakes not dise not that , pourvu that the Canada exporte , everything paving yeas the better streets the meilleur of them mondes . 
i pose series another question . 
i think at Imasco who , he rereads has referred peine few days , has sold Pharmaprix at the Quebec and Shoppers Drug Mart elsewhere at the Canada . 
transport 209 of propriétés Forces disparaissent at standpoint of oeil . 
i parie that what arranged at the Canada . 
pensons at the plant the montage of automobiles of GM at Boisbriand , établissement maintenu Subcommittee respiration artificielle since 10 years and where them employees parlent constamment of their crainte of series closure imminente . 
the Canada jouit of series prosperity enviable , but he joue Act Act corde raide . 
what is because that our power to achat collectif has diminué since few years that we awakened lost the foreign jobs , that our young apply inquiètent of their future and that we lisons of them messages of inquiétude streets them media that I ose tirer Act sonnette of alarme . 
a not to audace more loin , I know that some proposent at the Canada ' suivre the example of the Union European and the adopt series devise commune who serait the dollar validate . 
honnêtement , we cannot fell impotent not là . 
i believe that series immense majority of between us , Canadians to the genus or the Government another language , awakened too invested streets our wheel attain yeas renier our identity . 
what is yeas unabated reason that we refusons of us fondre , without distinction , Subcommittee on flag validate . 
these measures seules permettront at the Canada ' conserver dapper reputation . 
honourable senators , I am course that what is the souhait of all levels members of unabated House . 
all , we voulons léguer at our children a country fell pleine prosperity . 
what arranged only series Action of fermeté and the dynamisme who accroîtra the performance of our economy . 
now that the government seems wheel dominé the inflation and wheel overburdened end since both years at Act policy of them Budgets déficitaires , tolérer a dollar Heritage at the niveaude 66 cents validate is uncalled . 
Authorized at the committee of utiliser them documents and testimony recueillis lors of the examination of the bill to Bill precedent yeas the study of the bill to Bill Present 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Oliver , seconded by the Honourable Senator Di Nino : 
that foreign documents reçus and Oceans testimony entendus by the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional at the surveillance of his study of the projetde bill S - 17 , Act amend the Code criminal relatively at the harassment criminal and at the other subjects connexes , lors of health first session of health trente - sixth législature , soient renvoyés at the Comité , when he fingertips been constitué , yeas Act présente study of the bill to Bill S - 6 . - ( 
the Honourable Senator Cools ) . 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
honourable senators , the senator Cools has yielding dapper place and I souhaite prendre Act parole . 
yeas conclude the debate Act unabated motion , I voudrais you Refer at the PM 
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs : 
honourable senators , I torn at interrupt the senator Oliver , but the debate doit perhaps adjourned at the name of the senator Cools . 
if the senator Oliver décide of the clore , the Honourable Senator not fingertips not Act possibility of apply express . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
the senator Oliver : 
the senator Carstairs : 
what is very well , honourable senators , at condition that the senator Cools not veuille not prendre Act parole . 
i cannot tiens not at parler now and I am entièrement disposée at écouter the senator Oliver . 
the senator Hays : 
puisque the senator Cools has rose his agreed , the senator Oliver can there aller of his speech . 
the senator Oliver : 
honourable senators , yeas clore the debate Convey Act unabated motion , I voudrais attirer your attention Act them paragraphes 874 and 875 of health sixth edition of Beauchesne , page 250 . 
they disent what who suit : 
the committee which no has not terminé his inquiry at Act end of series session can make report at Act House of what fact , analyzed that the foreign testimony that he has entendus . 
he can fell outre recommander that at Act session suivante Act House him confie the same file and that he puisse apply serve the Day Evidence recueillie until - là . 
bye less than Act House not the autorise at fell heed account , a committee not can make report of them testimony rendus appeared a committee similar lors of series session antérieure , except Subcommittee form of appendice . 
he is clear that foreign testimony reçus by a committee at the surveillance of series session précédente arresting perhaps renvoyés at a committee at the surveillance of series nouvelle session with Act leave of the Senate . 
the commentaire 875 précise that what is everything at fact acceptable . 
he introduces that fell the absence of the approval of the Senate , the committee not can make report of them testimony if what not is underfunded form of appendice . 
if til obtenait the Authorized to the Senate yeas that the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional puisse examiner them testimony reçus relatively at the bill to Bill S - 17 at the surveillance of health dernière session streets the framework of his study of the bill to Bill S - 6 durant Act session actuelle , the committee could Robbie utiliser fully them testimony already recueillis . 
health practice britannique supports also Act recevabilité of ma motion . 
health nd edition of Erskine Erskine , at them pages 635 and 669 , introduces that foreign reports or telecommunications procès - verbaux of testimony of committees precedents who are périmés are stalkers renvoyés at the foreign committees ultérieurs and that til Turcot analyzed the study of interpellations who never Partnerships not been terminée at cause of health prorogation of them Houses . 
fell outre , more of ten precedents acclaimed been établis yeas unabated practice at the surveillance of them ten dernières years and I ai attiré the attention of them honourable senators Act the one of these précédentsle 3 November last . 
health reason yeas laquelle unabated practice is acceptable is everything at fact évidente . 
commentator I the ai mentioned Act dernière once that I ai soulevé Act question at the Senate , the fact of permettre at the foreign reports and testimony already reçus by a committee at the surveillance of series session précédente of Welfare renvoyés at a committee étudiant Act same question at the cour of series nouvelle session épargne of the time and the Government money , and what is therefore series practice efficiente . 
why exiger that a committee convoque at nouveau of them witnesses who acclaimed already comparu at what topic ? 
we gaspillons their time and the money for the taxpayer . 
some of these witnesses acclaimed comparu at them fees of the Senate and we devrions their ask the subpoenas at nouveau , yet là at them fees of the Senate . 
the most , business honourable members of the committee acclaimed already 3.26 much of their time précieux at the audition of these witnesses and at the study of them questions . 
why devrions - we their ask the prendre still more of their time yeas hear them mêmes testimony ? 
he not there has aucune reason yeas justify confirms étant rose that the foreign precedents acclaimed already been établis yeas permettre the type of Motion that I ai Proposed relatively at the bill to Bill S - 6 . 
i ai also consulted Beauchesne afin of savoir what that he said to them instructions at the committee fell standpoint of chercher at understand Act préoccupation soulevée at bearer regard by the senator Cools . 
transport mentions pertinentes figurent at them paragraphes 681 at 685 of them pages 210 and 211 . 
streets Act nd edition of Erskine Erskine , he is question of them instructions at them pages 515 at 519 . 
honourable senators , health motion that I présente not is not to health nature of series instruction telle that the entendent Beauchesne and Erskine Erskine . 
series instruction is series motion autorisant a committee at accomplir something something which him serait otherwise interdit or him enjoignant of accomplir something something whose he could otherwise apply abstenir . 
transport authorities discutent also the foreign genres of instructions irrecevables . 
the paragraph 687 at Act page 212 of Beauchesne introduces : 
is irrecevable blunt instruction who never apply rapporte not at the content of the bill to Bill or who paving at the encontre of his objet . 
health motion that I présente not autorise not the committee at accomplir something something which him serait otherwise interdit . 
all levels committees are autorisés at convoquer of them witnesses and at recueillir of them preuves . 
health Gotcha something that the Senate autorise the committee at accomplir , what is the utiliser Act Evidence already recueillie by a committee at the opportunity to series postponement précédente streets the framework of his study of a bill to Bill No. 
transport authorities fell matière of procedure and health practice of the Senate montrent clearly that ma motion is recevable . 
health logical and the efficience justifient that the snakes continues to there recourir . 
his Honour the Speaker Acting : 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
motion autorisant the committee at And them facts nouveaux regarding the euthanasia and the assistance at the suicide - Adjourned of the debate 
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs , pursuant at the notice rose the 18 November 1999 , moved : 
health measure streets laquelle acclaimed been mises fell implementation them recommendations unanimes présentées streets the report ; 
2 . Le evolution at the Canada ' Affairs différentes questions étudiées streets the report ; 
3 . Le evolution at the abroad of them différentes questions étudiées streets the report . 
that the Comité présente his report final at the most tardle 6 June 2000 . 
perhaps honourable senators , afin that the objective of the subamendment - Committee authorized clear yeas them senators , I query that they admits that durant Act period allant of June 1995 at today today , something 25 40,000 copies of the report " De Act life and the Day death " acclaimed been distribuées . 
he is became the topic of a certain number of surveillance of schools of médecine and done now part of their documents of référence yeas them questions of euthanasia and the assistance at the suicide . 
however , I cannot ai not the intent of réexaminer them decisions principales of unabated study liées at the euthanasia and at the assistance at the suicide . 
i hope that unabated study examinera only them decisions prises of way unanimous . 
honourable senators , at condition that royal motion reçoive the agrément of the Senate , the study ferait rejecting . 
she ferait the standpoint Act the état of them care palliative at the Canada , there including the état of avancement of health implementation fell implementation of them recommendations unanimes of 1995 - Government committee . 
she ferait the standpoint Act the état of health maîtrise of health douleur and the foreign practices of sédation at the Canada , there including the état of avancement of health implementation fell implementation of them recommendations unanimes of 1995 - Government committee . 
she ferait the standpoint Act the état of the refusal and the Government v. of the treatment of survival at the Canada , there including the état of avancement of health implementation fell implementation of them recommendations unanimes of 1995 - Government committee . 
she ferait the standpoint Act the état of them directives avancées at the Canada , there including the état of avancement of health implementation fell implementation of them recommendations unanimes of 1995 - Government committee . 
she ferait the standpoint Act the état of avancement of health implementation fell implementation of health recommendation unanimous of entreprendre of them recherches regarding Casual demandes of assistance at the suicide at the Canada . 
she ferait the standpoint Act the état of avancement of health implementation fell implementation of health recommendation unanimous of entreprendre of them recherches regarding Casual demandes of euthanasia at the Canada . 
she ferait the standpoint Act the état of avancement of health implementation fell implementation of health recommendation unanimous of create streets the Code criminal a nouveau Opposition of inculpation yeas murder at the third degree . 
she ferait also the standpoint , the case échéant , based them informations contenues streets them annexes of the report , there including individuals events majeurs , health jurisprudence and the Evolution of health issue at the abroad . 
honourable senators , I cannot think not that series assistance to the outside of health Library of the Parliament authorized necessary yeas réaliser the study of what committee . 
i query entamer our travaux without tarder - with the approval of the Senate , well course - Request telle sorte that we puissions introduce our report on 6 June 2000 . 
he not should not there wheel of déplacements , honourable senators , well that I query wheel Points at Act tenue of vidéoconférences . 
i ai asked at the Clerk of the committee of dresser a budget , because that royal question me intéressait always streets mon another life . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , the Honourable Senator Carstairs accepterait - she of fournir series precision ? 
the senator Carstairs : 
yes . 
the senator Kinsella : 
bye them termes of health motion whose we analyzed saisis , the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology apply chargerait of unabated activité . 
the committee not could - he not exercer them powers whose he dispose fell vertu of the rules yeas former the group chargé of the examination at partir of them members faisant part of the committee ? 
the senator Carstairs : 
well course . 
fell what moment , however , he not there has that two members of the Prime committee which siègent at the committee of them Affairs payroll , authorized the senator Lavoie - Roux and moi - even . 
i souhaiterais that at them meetings Act unabated question , he rereads ait , outre them five members of the committee of them Affairs payroll , business honourable senators Corbin , Keon , DeWare and Beaudoin . 
i ai abordé Act question with these senators , and they me acclaimed said that they aimeraient participate at the examination . 
the senator Kinsella : 
honourable senators , I approuve them observations of the senator Carstairs at bearer regard . 
he remembered trouve that I utilise what report Act Act life and health death streets condolences surveillance at the university . 
i ai discovered that foreign students not are not obligés of chercher the information streets Act documentation américaine . 
transport dissertations that they me remettent montrent that they tirent much of what report . 
what faisant , we aurons series réelle contribution permanente streets a field also critique . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Kinsella , the debate is adjourned . ) 
banks and Commerce 
Authorized at the committee of And Act situation of the regime financier domestique and international 
the Honourable Leo E . Kolber , pursuant at the notice rose the 18 November 1999 , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Banking and the Government trade authorized authorized at examiner , afin of fell make report , health situation actuelle of the regime financier domestique and international ; 
that foreign documents and testimony recueillis at what topic at the surveillance of health first session of health trente - sixth législature and foremost another document Parliamentary and témoignage pertinent regarding ledit topic soient renvoyés at what Comité ; 
that the Comité authorized habilité at permettre the reportage of ses deliberations translated by foreign media of information électroniques , fell dérangeant the least possible ses travaux ; 
that nonobstant them practices habituelles , the Comité authorized authorized at déposer a report Interim Act ledit topic auprès of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that ledit report authorized réputé wheel been tabled at the Senate ; and 
that the Comité présente his report final at the most tardle 31 December 2000 . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
( the Senate apply ajourne at the Wednesday 24 November 1999 , at 1:30 1:30 30 . ) 
debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
2e Session , Session Session , 
volume 138 , Issue 11 
the Wednesday 24 November 1999 
the Honourable Rose - Marie Losier - Cool , Speaker Pro tempore 
table of them Contents 
STATEMENTS STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
question of privilege 
notice 
the Late of Jeannine Séguin Le Late of Omer Deslauriers 
tributes 
the tenth anniversary of the commitment to éliminer Act poverty 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
routine legal and Constitutional 
depository of the Prime report of the committee 
Peoples aboriginal 
depository of the Prime report of the committee 
Énergie , Environment and resource Natural 
depository of the Prime report of the committee 
privileges , settlement and procedures 
depository of the Prime report of the committee 
Presented of the second report of the committee 
Presented of the third report of the committee 
finances nationales 
depository of the Prime report of the committee 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
notice of Motion ordonnant at the committee auquel the bill to Bill is renvoyé of the scinder fell two 
routine legal and Constitutional 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at engager of the staff 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
banks and Commerce 
Énergie , Environment and resource Natural 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at And of them questions relatives at his mandate 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at engager of the staff and at apply déplacer 
transport data of the census 
Presented of petitions 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
transport Affairs Foreign 
the increase the foreign Estimates for immobilisation streets the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) - Possibility possibility of ouvrir of nouvelles ambassades 
health justice 
transport Foreign Intergovernmental 
transport conditions of a next referendum québécois - Comments repercussions of the initiative of the government 
the economy 
the achat of grandes companies by the foreign companies américaines - Possibility policy of the government 
transport Foreign Intergovernmental 
the Quebec - Ex approach possible at the établissement of conditions regarding health tenue of a referendum 
the Quebec - Comments conditions possibles of a referendum - Possibility participation of them other provinces 
health Défense national 
the Livre white of 1994 - Possibility policy of the government 
the replacement of them helicopters Sea King 
health closure of health BFC Cornwallis - Possibility récupération of them vitraux commémoratifs of health chapelleSt. George' Maclean 
orders OF THE 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
second reading - Continued of the debate 
referred to health seams of the bill to Bill at the committee 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
Authorized at the committee of sit fell same time that the Senate 
bill to Bill of 1999 Act Act implementation fell implementation of conventions fiscales 
second reading 
referred at the committee 
question of privilege 
decision to health Ruling 
health freedom religieuse fell China fell report with them pactes internationaux of them Nations Nations 
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate 
Peoples aboriginal 
health Commission Royal Canadian inquiry Act them Peoples aboriginal - Autorisation at the committee of And them recommendations and the appliquer them mémoires and Oceans testimony of health session précédente at the study actuelle 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
Authorized at the committee of And the état Present and Oceans perspectives of future of the Agriculture 
Authorized at the committee of engager of the staff and the run déplacer 
Authorized at the committee of permettre Act diffusion of ses deliberations 
the SENATE 
the Wednesday 24 November 1999 
health postponement is ouverte at 1:30 1:30 30 , the Speaker pro tempore étant at the fauteuil . 
prayers . 
question of privilege 
notice 
the Honourable Lise Bacon : 
honourable senators , you prostituted received notice of series question of privilege that I ai soulevée pursuant at the paragraph 43 ( 5 ) the Government Rules , who said rejecting : 
blocks that he receives a notice fell vertu of them alinéas ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) ci - dessus , the Greffier of the Senate Committee fact traduire aussitôt and envoie at the office of each senator , at Ottawa , a copy of the notice original and the Day traduction . 
i présume that all levels senators acclaimed received bearer notice . 
health issue of privilege pertains Act fuite streets some media , whose Le Soleil of Quebec and the Toronto Star of today today , the Day second ébauche of the report of the committee Standing of them transport and the foreign Communications Act Act reorganization of the industry aérienne at the Canada . 
today today , I ai the intent of aborder unabated question at the moment opportun and the propose that the affair authorized référée at the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure . 
the Late of Jeannine Séguin Le Late of Omer Deslauriers 
tributes 
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier : 
honourable senators , what is with tristesse that I ai learned the Late deMme Jeannine Séguin , teacher of Training . 
Ms Séguin guardian considérée commentator the one of them more solides pillars of health francophonie locale , national and international . 
the Ontario francophone , everything particularly , loses a Opposition of file and the Canada is fell deuil of series wife damned who has hits the education fell language Speaking , the foreign Maritimes at them plaines of the West . 
i ai connu personally Jeannine Séguin and I him rends today today tribute yeas his dedication at Act cause francophone . 
Ms Séguin has chaired the Association of them teachers franco - ontariens , the Association canadienne - Speaking of the Ontario and health Federation of them communaut francophones and acadiennes of the Canada . 
she apply démarquait by dapper grande determination , his entêtement and a sense of the functioning policy hors pair . 
she Partnerships 3.26 dapper life at the education , at Act promotion of the unity canadienne and at the development of them institutions éducatives fell language Speaking . 
the year 1999 has marqué the departure of two grands défenseurs of health francophonie ontarienne . 
bye the spring , Omer Deslauriers we quittait . 
bearer man , at the instar of Ms Séguin , run guardian distingué by Hon. appui at Act cause of the accessibility to them francophones ontariens at them services of education and the health . 
we analyzed today today fell deuil of two persons who acclaimed marqué our community . 
the tenth anniversary of the commitment to éliminer Act poverty 
the Honourable Erminie J . Cohen : 
gold , at the instead of Welfare éliminée , health poverty chez them children apply is accrue of 60p. cent at the surveillance of health dernière decade . 
analyzed , 460 40,000 children approximately are streets series situation désespérée . 
our efforts yeas make disparaître Act poverty chez them children acclaimed been déplorables . 
yesterday evening , I ai participated at series vigile fell silence appeared Act Flamme perpétuelle yeas pleurer the incapacité of the Parliament of the Canada ' adhere his commitment at the hook of them children poor . 
i parle today today , honourable senators , at the name of them hundreds of thousands of children of our country rich who continuent of vivre streets Act poverty , at aller at the école the ventre vacuum and at vivre streets of them housing délabrés . 
they comptaient Act the government yeas adhere Act parole of the Parliament and heed ses promises , but unabated promise has been violée . 
bye the surveillance of health dernière decade , the rate of unemployment élevé has been pointé of the doigt commentator the genus of them principales causes of the number croissant of children vivant streets Act poverty . 
pourtant , Robbie that foreign rate of unemployment acclaimed began at baisser , health poverty chez them children has continué of augmenter . 
why ? 
with unabated maigre somme , she doit apply loger , run nourrir and apply vêtir analyzed that his child . 
transport children poor Cutbacks opposite all levels matins at Act same triste reality . 
how arresting - they centrer their attention Act the learning when they vivent streets of them conditions also déplorables ? 
they not arresting not compter Act series boyhood without souci . 
til constate of them signes of angoisse , the mauvaise health , the behaviour antisocial and the foreign delays streets the learning of the vocabulaire . 
what is unacceptable streets a country which apply vante of wheel a level of life supérieur . 
the rate of poverty at the Canada is almost scandaleux . 
bye the surveillance of health dernière decade , honourable senators , the government has reduced the way marquée them fund versés at them provinces yeas of them needs fondamentaux - campus them services Cultural , yeas of them housing adéquats , yeas of them care of health and yeas the education . 
health reform of the EI - unemployment touche mostly them women whose the admissibilité at them prestations has atteint his most haut level streets the history the year dernière . 
til has éliminé the deficit at the détriment of them programs Cultural . 
fell fact , our political nationales acclaimed virtually abandonné them children at their fate at the surveillance of them dernières years . 
bye the aube of a nouveau millennium , I implore the government ' heed Act promise introductory at our children , promise who never aurait never owed stay letter morte . 
he rereads has series lueur of espoir : Act récente announcement of a versement of six million for $ streets the housing Housing . 
ajoutons - including the other impotent and affectons - Provincial at them investment at term term , at the soutien of the Income and at them services destinés at them children afin of improving Act condition of them without - abri , the remanier the EI - employment fell fell atténuant them requirements and fell augmentant the number of them persons admissibles . 
examinons seriously the role drives of the government federal auprès of them provinces fell matière of Benefit - Provincial programs Cultural . 
transport discussions devraient porter non not based on sharing the foreign powers between the government federal and Oceans provinces , but rather Act what that foreign governments arresting make , together , yeas help them people streets the need , car he tangibly apply remind that foreign children of today today are them leaders and Oceans taxpayers of tomorrow . 
they deserve much better . 
we awakened series obligation loyalty eux and loyalty the Canada . 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
routine legal and Constitutional 
depository of the Prime report of the committee 
the Honourable Lorna Milne : 
honourable senators , pursuant at the article 104 of the rules of the Senate , I ai the honour to déposer the Prime report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional , regarding Casual Estimates engagées by the committee durant Act first session of health trente - sixth législature . 
( the text of the report consigned streets them Journals of the Senate to today today . ) 
Peoples aboriginal 
depository of the Prime report of the committee 
the Honourable Charlie Watt : 
honourable senators , pursuant at the article 104 of the rules of the Senate , I ai the honour to déposer the Prime report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Peoples aboriginal , regarding Casual Estimates that the committee has encourues during Act first session of health trente - sixth législature . 
( the text of the report consigned streets them Journals of the Senate to today today . ) 
Énergie , Environment and resource Natural 
depository of the Prime report of the committee 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
honourable senators , pursuant at the article 104 of the rules of the Senate , I ai the honour to déposer the Prime report of the committee sénatorial Standing of the energy , the Government environment and the foreign resources Natural , regarding Casual Estimates that the committee has encourues during Act first session of health trente - sixth législature . 
( the text of the report consigned streets them Journals of the Senate to today today ) . 
privileges , settlement and procedures 
depository of the Prime report of the committee 
the Honourable Jack Austin : 
honourable senators , pursuant at the article 104 of the rules of the Senate , I ai the honour to déposer the Prime report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure , regarding Casual Estimates that the committee has encourues during Act first session of health trente - sixth législature . 
( the text of the report consigned streets them Journals of the Senate to aujourd , today . ) 
Presented of the second report of the committee 
the Honourable Jack Austin , President of the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure , présente the report suivant : 
the Wednesday 24 November 1999 
the Comité Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure has the honour to introduce his 
DEUXIÈME REPORT 
your committee , pursuant at the article 108 of the rules and at Act request for the Honourable Senator Taylor , mover of the bill to Bill of interest private apply intitulant : " Act amend Act Act constituant fell human morale the council of them Veterans of health section canadienne of the Church morave of America " , recommends that the article 106 of the rules not apply applies not at what Bill of Bill No. 
respectfully submitted , 
the chairman , 
JACK AUSTIN 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
honourable senators , when étudierons - we what report ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Austin , the study of the report is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement . ) 
Presented of the third report of the committee 
the Honourable Jack Austin , President of the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure , présente the report suivant : 
the Wednesday 24 November 1999 
the Comité Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure has the honour to introduce his 
TROISIÈME REPORT 
your committee , authorized by the Senate Committee 13 October 1999 at examiner series question of privilege soulevée by the Honourable Senator Kinsella regarding a witness who has comparu appeared the committee Standing of the Agriculture and the foreign Forestry , demand that , by derogation at the alinéa 92 ( 2 ) du Rules , he authorized authorized at heed of them meetings at camera closed yeas hear from them testimony . 
respectfully submitted , 
the chairman , 
JACK AUSTIN 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
honourable senators , when étudierons - we what report ? 
the senator Austin : 
we the étudierons now , with your leave . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
nay . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Austin , the study of the report is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement . ) 
finances nationales 
depository of the Prime report of the committee 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
honourable senators , pursuant at the article 104 of the rules of the Senate , I ai the honour to déposer the Prime report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them finances nationales , regarding Casual Estimates engagées by the committee at the surveillance of health first session of health trente - sixth législature . 
( the text of the report consigned streets them Journals of the Senate to today today . ) 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
notice of Motion ordonnant at the committee auquel the bill to Bill is renvoyé of the scinder fell two 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 25 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
routine legal and Constitutional 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at engager of the staff 
the Honourable Lorna Milne : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that , the Thursday 25 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional authorized habilité at retenir them services of advisors , techniciens , employees of office or other elements nécessaires yeas examiner of them bills of Bill , health seams of bills of Bill and Oceans forecasts budgétaires who him acclaimed been déférées . 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at permettre Act diffusion of ses deliberations by the foreign afford électroniques 
the Honourable Lorna Milne : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that , the Thursday 25 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional authorized authorized at permettre Act diffusion of ses deliberations translated by foreign media of information électroniques , the manner at bother the least possible ses travaux . 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at sit fell same time that the Senate 
the Honourable Michael Kirby : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that , the Thursday 25 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology authorized authorized at sit during Senators sittings of the Senate to the Monday 29 November , the Government Tuesday 30 November and the Government Wednesday 1er December 1999 , and that the application of the paragraph 95 ( 4 ) the Government Rules authorized suspendue at bearer regard . 
banks and Commerce 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at sit fell same time that the Senate 
the Honourable Leo E . Kolber : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate and by derogation at the alinéa 58 ( 1 ) has ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Banking and the Government trade authorized authorized at sit at 3:15 1:30 30 today today , even if the Senate seat at what moment - là , and that the application of the paragraph 95 ( 4 ) the Government Rules authorized suspendue at bearer regard . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
leave granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , puis - I ask at the chairman of the committee why he estimated necessary to sit today today ? 
the Authorized has been granted , but we aimerions well savoir fell whereupon is - what also important ? 
the senator Kolber : 
the committee of them Banking undertakes today today ' review of them problems causés by foreign gains fell capital at the Canada and we disposons of fort little of time yeas the finishing puisque we comptons achever our report préliminaire before Act end of the year . 
the professor Reuven Brenner , who has written the one of them documents which fact autorité fell Act matière , has avoided apply libérer , fell dépit of the préavis very court that we him awakened rose , and venir at Ottawa subpoenas appeared our committee . 
if we voulons make our work , we devons commencer our review at the most vite . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
however , I query ask at them chairmen who veulent that their committee apply réunisse during that the Senate seat of us give a préavis more term that gerrymandering - ci . 
confirms we met , and met them witnesses , streets series situation embarrassante . 
the work of them senators fell unabated enceinte is prioritaire . 
the program of them committees doit perhaps honoré , commentator til the has explained at them senators before that they not litigants them duties of President , the vice - chairman or the member of them committees . 
the what side - ci , at least the genus emergency - and I accepte that what authorized the case today today ? we cannot impotent not very enclins at give the Authorized and at permettre that foreign senators quittent Act House , who is the place where they devraient perhaps when the Senate seat . 
the senator Kolber : 
honourable senators , I cannot ai nil doubt that our responsibility first authorized to perhaps présents at Act House . 
we awakened also Act responsibility to make our work . 
he not we rest that few days yeas the make . 
what are yeas Act plupart of them experts well connus streets their field . 
honourable senators , I me fell remets at your decision . 
if the Honourable Senator of fell opposite wants rencontrer our leader yeas changer the créneau réservé at our committee , authorized . 
apply he not wants not that we fassions our work , authorized . 
however , if really til apply attend at what that we the fassions , that til we gives at the least Act possibility of us there allegiances . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
honourable senators , if the chairman of the committee éprouve of them difficulties with the créneau who him is réservé , I veux well the satisfaire fell him fell offrant a another , the Monday or the Friday , or fell soirée during Act week . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
Énergie , Environment and resource Natural 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at And of them questions relatives at his mandate 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 25 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of the energy , the Government environment and the foreign resources Natural , fell conformité with the alinéa 86 ( 1 ) p ) the Government Rules , authorized authorized at And them questions who palatable survenir occasionnellement apply rapportant at the energy , at the Environment and at them resources Natural fell General of the Canada ; and 
that the committee circulation report at the Senate at the most tardle 31 March 2000 . 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at engager of the staff and at apply déplacer 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 25 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of the energy , the Government environment and the foreign resources Natural authorized habilité at retenir them services of advisors , techniciens , employees of office or other elements nécessaires yeas examiner them bills of Bill , health seams of bills of Bill and Oceans forecasts budgétaires who him acclaimed been renvoyés ; and 
that the committee authorized authorized at apply déplacer at travers the Canada and at the abroad at them purposes of reassess examinations . 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at permettre Act diffusion of ses deliberations by the foreign afford électroniques 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 25 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of the energy , the Government environment and the foreign resources Natural authorized habilité at permettre the reportage of ses deliberations translated by foreign media of information électroniques , fell dérangeant the least possible ses travaux . 
transport data of the census 
Presented of petitions 
the Honourable Lorna Milne : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to introduce series petition the Government Ontario Genealogical Society , who has been signée by 190 persons and who asks rejecting : 
... them petitioners prient the Parliament of adopt series bill afin of préserver them data of them recensements of after 1901 , the foreign confier at them Archives nationales and the allegiances these data and celles of them recensements ultérieurs at Act provision of the public at the bout of 92 years , what who is currently conforme at them nombreuses provisions legislatures Act Act protection of them information personnels and at them délais fell vigueur at the hour actuelle . 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
transport Affairs Foreign 
the increase the foreign Estimates for immobilisation streets the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) - Possibility possibility of ouvrir of nouvelles ambassades 
the Honourable Terry Stratton : 
honourable senators , I ai series question at poser at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
bye the beginning of health week , we awakened strokes the immense plaisir of rencontrer of them representatives of the Council of the Treasury yeas examiner the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) . 
notamment , we awakened discussed the foreign appropriation of the Department of them Foreign Foreign and the Government Commerce international . 
the Canada has he opened or apply apprête he at ouvrir of them ambassades or the foreign consulats streets the world ? 
i believe savoir that he construit series nouvelle Embassy at Berlin fell reason for the transfer of health Capital of the Germany of Bonn at Berlin . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , the senator comprendra that I cannot dispose not to these information . 
however , I me entretiendrai with the minister and I transmettrai them information at the senator and at unabated House tomorrow or at the beginning of health week next . 
the senator Stratton : 
i fell saurai gré at the Leader of the government . 
i believe savoir that royal construction of the Embassy at Berlin coûte something 71 million for $ , and Oceans costs acclaimed augmenté . 
however , he remains always a trou of 60 million for $ , fell what sense that we ignorons Act reason for these million . 
we awakened asked to them explanations at them representatives of the council . 
he serait can - perhaps préférable that the Honourable Leader obtienne these information on the Council of the Treasury and that he them dépose at the Senate , car I am curieux of savoir at whereupon are affectés these 60 million for $ . 
the senator Tkachuk : 
confirms fact series very belle residence . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I vais ask these information at the name of the Honourable Senator and I rapporterai at the Senate blunt information that I serai fell measure of obtaining . 
health justice 
the cost of the program of registration of them weapons at gun - Possibility responsibility to the minister 
the Honourable David Tkachuk : 
honourable senators , lors of health same meeting , yesterday morning , Rand Neville , the Government Council of the Treasury , has comparu appeared the committee yeas parler of the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates , fell particular the Government program of registration of them weapons at gun . 
i him ai posé a certain number of questions Act Act reason yeas laquelle 35 million for $ additional étaient nécessaires Robbie that the foreign appropriation of 40,000 million for $ specialist already been prévus streets the budget initial . 
Koppel . Neville has Robbie calculé the cost of the program of registration of them weapons at gun since 1995 . 
i ai moi - even been choqué fell entendant the figure of 309 million for $ . 
the government should savoir that what amount scandaleux , what is what that number of parliamentarians and the opposants at the program of registration of them weapons at gun him specialist prédit fell 1994 and 1995 , at savoir that ses estimations étaient very fell dessous of health reality and that the program coûterait of them hundreds of millions of $ . 
the government has rejeté toutes our protestations fell disant that we cannot savions not to whereupon we parlions . 
the minister , Rand Rock , Partnerships said that the cost serait of only 85 million for $ and what , yeas blunt Act durée of the program of registration , authorized to 1995 at 2001 . 
we fell impotent now at 309 million for $ and what not is not fini . 
the Leader of the government is - he also the notice that the minister Rock is responsible for unabated enormous mistake of calcul who coûte of them hundreds of millions of $ at them taxpayers Airports ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I ai series interpretation légèrement différente of health response fournie by the haut fonctionnaire . 
the senator Forrestall : 
why not accepte he not unabated responsibility , streets what case ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
i know that the process of registration connaît of them difficulties . 
the senator Tkachuk : 
til the has well indiqué he rereads has three years . 
the senator Boudreau : 
fell reality , a review has been effectué fell May last and the foreign recommendations acclaimed been faites yeas improve the process . 
transport three quarters of these recommendations acclaimed been appliquées . 
the treatment of them demandes of registration is now more efficient . 
according them information whose I dispose , 8 500 licences are délivrés and 35 40,000 weapons at gun are enregistrées each months . 
confirms not répond not everyone at fact at Act question that the Honourable Senator has posée , but confirms indique really that the process has been examiné , that the foreign improvements acclaimed been Location and that the system seems fonctionner . 
the senator Tkachuk : 
honourable senators , what is always Act same history . 
they acclaimed said that what guardian the minister . 
i request now at the Leader of the government at the Senate which is responsible and he répond that , well course , the minister is always responsible , but that he rereads has strokes all these problems . 
he not there has never the responsible , because that apply he rereads fell Partnerships a , he bet . 
the senator Forrestall : 
hear ! 
the senator Tkachuk : 
apply he not remet not dapper Resignation , what is that he considère that he not is not responsible . 
who therefore is responsible at the Breast of health bureaucratie ? 
what is possible also . 
the minister could perhaps - perhaps we say , run he is responsible commentator he the affirme , breaching price he doit payer yeas series if grave mistake ? 
why not has he not démissionné ? 
apply he not is not responsible , who therefore is responsible at the Breast of health democracy ? 
perhaps - perhaps the minister should perhaps he ask Act tenue of series inquiry official yeas fell inform them parliamentarians . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I comprends them concerns of the senator understandings at them Estimates excédentaires effectuées streets the framework of what program . 
the Honourable Terry Stratton : 
honourable senators , I ai series question Supplementary at poser . 
the government doit surely wheel now series idea of what that uncovered them costs globaux . 
devra til dépenser 600 million , 800 million or a 1.1 of $ ? 
no pourriez - you not we give series idea of them costs financiers prévus ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I discuterai certainly the Day question with the minister responsible and ferai share at Act House of all levels information that I obtiendrai . 
transport Foreign Intergovernmental 
transport conditions of a next referendum québécois - Comments repercussions of the initiative of the government 
the Honourable Jean - Claude Rivest : 
honourable senators , Robbie that foreign Canadians apply préoccupent of them questions Economic and payroll , the government ' s Canada has chosen artificiellement , streets series of ses belles improvisations , the ramener at the Prime plan Act question référendaire . 
why the government ' s Canada has he decided at what moment - ci of ramener unabated question at the prior - scène of the actualité policy at the Canada ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , if the government Heritage Justice approprié of express his opinion Act series question also fondamentale that celle whose we parlons , health clarté is absolument necessary . 
health clarté is requise activist at propos of health nature of health issue that at propos of the outcome requis yeas that the process démarre . 
understandings at savoir breaching is the meilleur moment yeas raise unabated question and the aborder publicly yeas énoncer clearly the notice of the government , I guess that nil moment not is meilleur that a another , puisque what not is not yeas everything of subsequently . 
the government and the Prime Minister estiment can - perhaps that he is opportun of exposer clearly blocks now the standpoint of standpoint of the government ' s Canada Act these issues very importantes at the instead of wait of Welfare streets the gun of health campaign . 
the senator Rivest : 
honourable senators , at court term , I cannot know not if the minister fell is conscient , but the initiative of the Prime Minister of the Canada ' raise unabated question àce moment - ci seems unfortunately tourner at the advantage of the option souverainiste at the Quebec . 
i cannot know not damned lecturele government Heritage retient of his initiative . 
Onparle much of health clarté of unabated question . 
the minister etle government ' s Canada are - they conscients that leurinitiative - prise seems he unilatéralement - , loin of cimenter Act cohesion of them forces federalists at the Quebec , crée unfortunately of health confusion chez ceux who repositories defend the option canadienne at the Quebec ? 
the Opposition of the Party Liberal of the Quebec , Rand Jean Charest , run is dissocié publicly , bearer after - afternoon , at the Assembly national , the Government initiative prise by the Prime Minister of the Canada . 
is - what that the government think that unabated manner unilateral of procéder streets the debate référendaire sert Act cause of the unity canadienne ? 
no serait - he not préférable that the government ' s Canada , the government ' s Quebec and ceux of them other provinces manifestent series attitude of opening and the compréhension yeas convince them Quebecers of choose Act voie of the option canadienne ? 
some Quebecers who votent without too of conviction yeas Act sovereignty préféreraient without doubt the option canadienne . 
he not tangibly not give the arguments at these people . 
apply he rereads Partnerships a referendum at the Quebec fell what moment , unabated initiative placerait the Party québécois of a side , Jean Chr of the another . 
jean Charest and the Party Liberal of the Quebec not sauraient too of breaching side pencher ! 
fell soulevant officially Act question of the referendum without consult the Main door - parole of them forces federalists at the Quebec , the Party Liberal of the Quebec , sert - til Act cause of the unity canadienne ? 
fell procédant unilatéralement , til déstabilise the Party Liberal of the Quebec and Oceans forces federalists québécoises . 
fell January or February 2000 , I hope that what malheureux incident arranged oublié . 
the minister could - he convince ses colleagues on the cabinet , fell particular his Prime Minister and the minister of them Foreign Intergovernmental , the avoid the mener of them actions which servent Act cause of them séparatistes soutenant Act sovereignty at the Quebec ? 
no could - he not tenter of inciter ses colleagues at travailler of way positive and normale with the whole of them federalists québécois yeas strengthen the option fédéraliste at the Quebec at the instead of the affaiblir , commentator til has unfortunately avoided the constater unabated week ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , he is clear that the Prime Minister considère Act question importante and fondamentale yeas the future of the country . 
his opinion regarding Casual referendums and health separation is incontestable . 
based what standpoint fondamental , he not there has not to désaccord . 
by respect yeas them Quebecers who voteraient at a éventuel referendum , if the Canada and the Quebec acclaimed Act malchance of fell wheel a another , we aurions a role at play and series opinion at express yeas make fell sorte that royal question authorized claire . 
he regardless of express unabated opinion , and I believe that the Prime Minister think also that he tangibly Act make connaître . 
some diront that the government ' s Canada doit perhaps a simple observer , a " voyeur " , streets everything referendum who faces déroulerait at the Quebec , even if health issue prête grandement at confusion and if them results are contestables . 
the senator Rivest : 
is - what that the Leader of the government at the Senate laisse hear by dapper response that the very hon. Prime Minister of the Canada , Rand Pierre Elliott Trudeau , lors of the referendum of 1980 , not guardian that a voyeur ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , we essayons of determine streets damned measure the government ' s Canada account play a role streets the process référendaire at the Quebec . 
we awakened received from them indications contradictoires . 
if the government not is not satisfait of health issue préparée and approuvée by the Assembly national , paving he rereads superposer dapper own question ? 
til entend often the word " clarté " . 
fell dernière analysis , who déterminera if health issue is suffisamment claire ? 
arranged - what the government ' s Canada or the Assembly national of the Quebec ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , streets Act judicieuse decision that she has rendue , health Court Supreme has indiqué that the government ' s Canada has solemn a role at play streets the process . 
i ai heard , yesterday evening , what that the Prime Minister Partnerships déclaré at Act period of them questions at the another place . 
transport elements of the file are still at the study , commentator the Prime Minister ' has indiqué , but I am certain that he fera connaître fell detail Act Position of the government blocks that he arranged loan at the make . 
bye what moment - là , I serai very pleased to you give more of details that I cannot dispel the make today today . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
honourable senators , I remind at the minister that royal Court Supreme not has rendu anguishes judgment anguishes decision , that what guardian series simple opinion , and that she never gave rose to directives at nil government . 
health Court Supreme has been appelée at apply prononcer Act three issues contenues streets a referred to the government ' s Canada . 
i remind also at the minister that royal province of Quebec has refused to apply introduce appeared Act Court Supreme and that unabated dernière has owed charger a lawyer of represent Act province . 
bye them three issues , health cour has answered " nay " . 
unfortunately , at mon notice , health Court Supreme has nettement outrepassé his mandate fell décidant of établir certaines lines directrices regarding health issue and the outcome , quels that they soient . 
bye mon notice , confirms has tristement yeas effect of légitimer Act separation . 
bye cause of health Court Supreme , because that she has établi of them lines directrices and the foreign rules Act Act way whose health démarche référendaire should apply dérouler and based what who should arriver if the outcome not guardian not favorable at the Canada , he is became yeas Act first once légitime of parler of health possibility of series separation . 
i believe that royal Court Supreme has outrepassé là his mandate . 
the blunt manner , why the government federal not we said - he not damned question him paraîtrait acceptable , not said - he not at the government québécois that he not accordera of health credibility that at Act response at unabated question and not laisse he not them Quebecers decide ? 
damned question should perhaps til poser at them Quebecers , according the government federal ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , if the snakes fell complements never at confirms , I présume that royal question arranged formulée by the Assembly national of the Quebec . 
i cannot believe not that the government federal voudra soumettre at the Inuvialuit québécois series question Convey Act Act separation . 
fell what who pertains Act decision to health Court Supreme , what is series question of opinion . 
the Honourable Senator Lynch - Staunton has rose his opinion Act them observations faites by Act Court Supreme . 
i think that bon number considèrent that these observations acclaimed been fort utiles and that thin acclaimed rose series indication of health way whose business Canadians souhaitent that their government participe at a éventuel process . 
he is at espérer that unabated éventualité not apply concrétise never . 
streets the interest of them Quebecers and the foreign Canadians , puisse he not never there wheel of another question référendaire . 
the economy 
the achat of grandes companies by the foreign companies américaines - Possibility policy of the government 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
the 2000 last , the government has refused Act proposal of merger of them grandes Banking Forces . 
we savons now that unabated decision policy has causé of them torts irréparables at the economy canadienne . 
the government not has not product of White white or the bill to Bill who libérera our principales institutions Projections - Status lourde regulatory at laquelle thin are assujetties , and confirms , yeas their permettre of soutenir Act competition Act Act scène international . 
streets the Financial Post - today today , Peter Godsoe , the chairman and steering General éminemment respecté of health Bank Scotia , run inquiète vivement of the future of them grandes companies Forces . 
Koppel . Godsoe has déclaré that our grandes companies ouvertes repositories power soutenir Act competition of them meilleures businesses of them Americas and that our political Change not repositories not them pénaliser , but unsuccessfully them encourage at perhaps concurrentielles at the abroad . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate may - he we say damned policy Public the government introduces allegiances fell place yeas make fell sorte that few - unes of our grandes businesses restent Forces and not soient not toutes achetées by the foreign companies américaines ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , with Act mondialisation of the economy , we awakened observé a accroissement of them investment trillion streets them businesses Forces . 
parallèlement , he rereads has strokes a accroissement of them investment Airports streets of them businesses américaines . 
transport investment submariners streets them two sense . 
i cannot believe not wheel them figures at scope of main , but I me commits at them fournir at the Honourable Senator blocks that I the pourrai . 
certaines persons are very inquiètes appeared them investment trillion streets some sectors of our economy . 
however , the other sectors petitioners very pleased to recevoir of them investment , somewhat regardless Act source . 
i think everything particularly at the foreign companies of health province of origin of the Honourable Senator Oliver , who is also ma province of origin . 
the senator Oliver : 
honourable senators , health week dernière , Peter Lougheed , a former prime minister of the Alberta and a dirigeant of congruent respecté , has overburdened them Canadians fell Custody against the érosion of our sovereignty fell reason for health declining of health value of our dollar and the Government poids excessif of them taxes . 
according to them sections parus streets our newspapers , some ministers importants of the cabinet craignent that the Prime Minister not circulation obstruction at a debate Act the future of our economy . 
Koppel . Godsoe has asked at the government apply he lancera a debate attain Act the role of our grandes businesses . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate lancera he a tel debate ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , the Prime Minister is présent all levels days at the another place and perhaps respond at them questions Act what topic . 
by elsewhere , he is possible for discuss the what topic activist at the another place that here . 
yeas what who is the Government increase the foreign investment trillion streets them businesses Forces , I souligne that , streets some cases , he rereads has can - perhaps instead of apply inquiéter , but that , streets of other , these investment are them bienvenus . 
streets certaines regions of the Canada and some sectors of our economy who never acclaimed not strokes of investment of something source that what authorized , business investment trillion tombent at standpoint appointed . 
transport Foreign Intergovernmental 
the Quebec - Ex approach possible at the établissement of conditions regarding health tenue of a referendum 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
honourable senators , ma question is supplementary at celles who acclaimed been posées précédemment Act them intentions of the government relatively at a éventuel next referendum at the Quebec . 
he is clear , the afternoon them propos referendums by the Leader analyzed that by the Prime Minister etM. Dion , that the government introduces prendre of them measures . 
damned form prendront these measures ? 
apply agira he ' series bill , the genus resolution or the genus simple statement of principle ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , he is clear that the government songe seriously at prendre of them measures . 
fell effect , the Prime Minister has déclaré yesterday evening streets series interview Public , that I ai strokes Act chance to hear , that the government allait prendre of them measures understandings at Act clarté of health issue . 
the Prime Minister has spoke of series bill , the genus resolution or the genus statement of principle which serait introductory by him or a another important door - parole of the government . 
the Prime Minister has said that foreign discussions apply poursuivaient understandings at Act voie at suivre and that he not guardian not fell measure , yeas the instant , the say how the government envisagerait of make valoir his standpoint of standpoint . 
i cannot dispel not fell say more than the Prime Minister . 
the Quebec - Comments conditions possibles of a referendum - Possibility participation of them other provinces 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
honourable senators , ma second question pertains them " discussions fell surveillance " whose the minister has spoke . 
more specifically , I voudrais savoir if them provinces participent at these discussions fell surveillance . 
streets Act response to health Court Supreme at the referred to the government , he is question of all levels partners at the Breast of health Confederation . 
ai - I reason for présumer that , the Government Notices of the government , the expression " all levels partners " wants say them ten provinces and the government federal ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , the Prime Minister has done allusion at the foreign discussions fell surveillance between ses colleagues and him ? same . 
yeas the moment , I cannot know not streets damned measure them discussions are allées more loin . 
fell fact , yesterday , I ai said that I cannot serais not surprised if them provinces étaient intéressées also at express their points of standpoint Act to them questions of clarté . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
honourable senators , health period of them questions of 30 minutes is now terminée . 
health leave is - she granted to pursue ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
health Défense national 
the Livre white of 1994 - Possibility policy of the government 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , I veux savoir if , yes or non , the Livre white of health defence of 1994 remains the énoncé of position définitif of the government Present Act them questions liées at Act defence . 
apply he rereads has strokes of them changes , the Parliament fell has he been avisé or there has he strokes of them consultations translated at bearer regard ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I believe that the senator me has posé Act same question yesterday afternoon - afternoon . 
the replacement of them helicopters Sea King 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , I voudrais poser series question générale at the minister . 
there has he strokes a change the political ? 
i me inquiète of them helicopters . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , commentator we fell awakened discussed précédemment , what program is Act grande priority of the minister of health Défense national . 
something certaine , what is series initiative that I supports and that I encourage . 
i hope that we serons fell measure of say something something of constructif streets a future rapproché . 
the senator Forrestall : 
honourable senators , yesterday , at the another place , the Secretary Parliamentary of the minister of health Défense national Partnerships rejecting at say at what topic : 
... she is based on office of the minister and what is at him that he revient of prendre Act decision . 
til has said that what guardian series priority . 
why the minister not prend - he not series decision ? 
is - what because that he rereads has a change streets Act policy of advocacy ? 
transport notes of the minister at bearer regard établissent very clearly the calendar yeas the replacement of them Sea King embarqués at bord of ships . 
that doit - til croire ? 
why series decision not has she not been prise , if the énoncé of them needs is prioritaire and apply trouve Act the office of the minister yeas that he the paraphe ? 
til has created a office yeas apply preoccupation of unabated question . 
i voudrais savoir what that he fell coûte yeas make fonctionner a office who never done nothing . 
what is commentator conserver series vieille voiture of chemin of Railway at the case where something a voudrait apply fell serve series once by year . 
damned is Act response ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I comprends Act préoccupation of mon hon. colleague . 
the senator Forrestall : 
i cannot the think not . 
the senator Boudreau : 
Évidemment , I transmets ses instances at the Honourable Minister , who me garantit at each opportunity that confirms remains dapper principale priority . 
he is at espérer that we serons fell measure of obtaining the foreign results constructifs streets a future rapproché . 
the senator Forrestall : 
honourable senators , what estle 4 November that I gave posé yeas Act dernière once series question at what topic . 
health durée of life espérée of them Sea King apply arrête fell 2005 . 
he faudra eight years yeas them substitute , what who fact that during three years , we cannot aurons nil helicopter . 
he rereads has a certain number of solutions . 
i voudrais well savoir if , yes or non , the government paving envoyer our ships fell sea without helicopters . 
paving he emprunter of them helicopters at Act Shipping américaine ? 
the Department paving he entreprendre a another program of modernization - God we fell Custody - Request them Sea King , who could perhaps - perhaps allegiances them ships and Oceans équipages fell danger ? 
that paving make the government and when paving he announce ses intentions at what topic ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , the minister is well conscient of toutes them solutions who faces offrent at him , there including celles that the Honourable Senator has mentionnées . 
he tangibly espérer that the announcement arranged introductory at what topic the most earlier possible . 
what is Act response Act meilleure and health later complète that I puisse give at the Honourable Senator at what stadium - ci . 
health closure of health BFC Cornwallis - Possibility récupération of them vitraux commémoratifs of health chapelleSt. George' Maclean 
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau : 
honourable senators , health week dernière , I ai posé series question at the Leader of the government at the Senate regarding health récupération of them vitraux of health chapelle at Act BFC Cornwallis . 
he has answered that he rereads Partnerships more of world streets Act Capital of health Nova Scotia Nova and that he guardian therefore préférable of installer them vitraux là where most of people arresting them see . 
i cannot ai not avoided poussé the affair more loin at what moment - là . 
unabated excuse me has however offusqué . 
bye what account - là , all levels trésors of them regions non urbaines of health Nova Scotia Nova who arresting perhaps transportés not devraient - they not apply retrouver at Halifax ? 
if the snakes suivait unabated logical until at bout , he particulars can - perhaps déménager Act statue of Évangéline of Grand - Pré at Halifax yeas that a more grandfather number of people puissent Act see . 
the Honourable Senator Boudreau , who 21.2 now at Halifax , should savoir that he is offusquant yeas all levels non - haligoniens of hear say that foreign vitraux devraient perhaps déménagés of Cornwallis at Halifax because that he rereads has more of world streets unabated city . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I cannot ai not been also cassant , streets ma response , that the Honourable Senator the has shirts hear . 
bye ma knowledge , the instead where apply trouvaient them vitraux guardian at toutes purposes utiles désaffecté since a 2000 , not rose been utilisé that series once or two durant blunt the year . 
the senator Comeau : 
honourable senators , I ai series dernière question supplementary . 
i know that the minister receives , the Veterans Veterans who are passés by Cornwallis and who acclaimed payé yeas them fenêtres , not evil of information at the topic of health promise that the Department of health Défense national their Partnerships introductory of restituer them vitraux series once them facilities fell place . 
i hope that the minister apply penchera seriously Act unabated question . 
even apply he songe at apply introduce at them prochaines election streets Halifax - Halifax - western , me said - til - he not should not laisser confirms embrouiller his judgement . 
autant I aime Act city of Halifax , the genus of them more belles cities of the Canada , autant I estimated that foreign zones non urbaines of health Nova Scotia Nova not arresting apply permettre of losing their trésors . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I cannot am not to agree with the senator Act a standpoint , but I the am Act a another . 
tell that royal city of Halifax is the genus of them more belles cities of the Canada , I cannot am not to agree . 
i trouve that what is Act more belle city of the world . 
the senator Kinsella : 
why ? 
that reprochez - you at Ottawa ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
yeas what who is the Government principle which seems préoccuper the senator , I cannot think not that we souhaitions that everyone the Heritage of health Nova Scotia Nova authorized centralisé ; I réexaminerai therefore Act question . 
the senator Forrestall : 
prostituted - you retrouvé them prie - God ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
i nie fell outre wheel decided where I me présenterais at the futures election . 
orders OF THE 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
second reading - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Kirby , seconded by the Honourable Senator Lewis , Refer at Act second reading of the bill to Bill C - 6 , Act visant at facilitate and at promote the trade électronique fell protégeant them information personnels recueillis , utilisés or releases streets certaines circumstances , fell prévoyant the utilisation of afford électroniques yeas communiquer or enregistrer of the information and the foreign transactions and fell amend Act Act Act Act Evidence at the Canada , health Act Act them textes réglementaires and health Act Act Act révision of them laws . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I interviens at the topic of the bill to Bill C - 6 . 
commentator you pourrez the constater , honourable senators , he not apply notional not to series Presented fell good and due form at what topic . 
what is a bill to Bill who consigned since a certain time at the Paper and who has done the objet of very bonnes discussions . 
i brevity the mover of the bill to Bill , the senator Kirby , analyzed that foreign senators Murray , Finestone , Oliver and Keon , whose business interventions we acclaimed much aidés at understand the bill to Bill No. 
bye them écouter , I ai senti that they appuyaient streets the whole the bill to Bill , but that they entretenaient however certaines concerns soulignées fell particular example the notice of Motion presented more earlier today today by the senator Murray . 
i parlerai mostly of the process entourant the study of the bill to Bill C - 6 . 
fell quality of Leader Deputy of the government at the Senate , I dois reconnaître that I ai very hurry that he authorized Message at the committee . 
the foreign observations me acclaimed been faites - and I am convaincu that what fut the case yeas all levels honourable senators ? by the foreign witnesses éventuels who désirent subpoenas appeared the committee , whose some apply inquiètent of the wording Present of the bill to Bill and voudraient wheel the opportunity to indiquer them improvements that they souhaiteraient see . 
commentator I the ai mentioned auparavant , some of them honourable senators who are intervenus streets the debate Act the bill to Bill acclaimed exprimé of them reserves semblables . 
the objective that I VI fell ma quality of Leader Deputy is the veiller at what that the bill to Bill authorized Message at the committee afin that these witnesses puissent perhaps entendus and that we puissions mood at the phase suivante of the process législatif . 
however , I reconnais Act necessity of make place at a debate Act Act measure legislative and a notice of Motion has been presented fell standpoint of scinder the bill to Bill No. 
he rereads has same strokes of them observations of the senator Finestone of our side of health House at the topic of the study of a subamendment at the bill to Bill No. 
i ai discussed with mon homologue , the senator Kinsella , Chief Deputy of the Opposition , commentator the introduces the article 38 of the rules , afin of tenter of find a terrain of entente Act Act way whose til should traiter what Bill of Bill , account tenu of them concerns exprimées by foreign senators . 
what last has underlined that royal meilleure way of tenter of conclude series entente Act Act way of traiter what Bill of Bill serait that I raises the thanking Act question at the Senate today today yeas that foreign senators soient well at the fact of ma proposal . 
if the other honourable veulent make the foreign commentaires Act ma proposal , what is perfect . 
puis , I inviterai the senator Kinsella referred we make share of ses propres commentaires Act Act proposal ? during Act period réservée at them questions and observations - Request way at what that foreign senators soient well at the courant of what who faces proceeded and why . 
the bill to Bill C - 6 fell is the phase of health second reading and he seems that he authorized important yeas the Opposition that he fell rest là until at what that we ayons strokes the time to us pencher Act certaines proposals for amendments . 
bye mon notice , he serait avantageux yeas what make the power compter Act them deliberations of them committees relatively at what Bill of Bill No. 
what that I me apprête at suggérer , what not is not series motion , but rather series idea yeas series motion éventuelle . 
if them honourable aiment the idea , I pourrai their ask Act leave requise . 
what is analyzed that I suggère of traiter what Bill of Bill No. 
however , before that I circulation ma suggestion , I query say that the author of health motion and the Main obviate yeas the Opposition devraient obtain Act leave of prendre Act parole . 
bye title of Leader Deputy of the government , I am disposé at accorder unabated leave yeas facilitate them things and find a terrain of entente at the Senate . 
i devrais also souligner that what not is not Act first once that series proposal of what kind is déposée since that I occupies what station . 
i know that the senator Frith and the senator Doody , when they étaient all levels two leaders adjoints of their party respectif , specialist sometimes acted analyzed . 
what not is not series situation which should at mon notice apply represent often . 
he remembered notional therefore the genus tentative of make avancer the bill to Bill at the Senate everything fell offrant Act souplesse necessary yeas hear them reserves exprimées at his topic . 
honourable senators , I proposerai , at the issue of our discussion , that the bill to Bill C - 6 authorized renvoyé at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology , with instruction that he fell authorized fact rapportle 2 December 1999 fell two volets : the Prime Act Act part 1 and the second Act them parties 2 at 5 of the bill to Bill ; that the debate Act Act second reading ait instead by Act subsequently and mené at term ; and that everyone review supplementary of the bill to Bill authorized effectué fell committee Whole . 
i cannot veux not propose Act motion everything of subsequently . 
we cannot procédons generally not to health sorte at the Senate , but confirms ressemble suffisamment at our way of make yeas that person cannot ait instead of apply fell inquiéter . 
however , I mover at the senator Kinsella of us give his opinion , at the moyen of series question or the genus observation , and I profiterai Robbie of the opportunity yeas the interroger at mon tour . 
the other honourable voudront can - perhaps apply express at what topic , notamment the senator Kirby and the senator Murray . 
bye Act conclusion of unabated discussion or the what debate , I demanderai Robbie Act leave of introduce Act motion whose I you ai already rose them grandes lines . 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
honourable senators , commentator complements of the make observer the senator Hays , me étant already exprimé Act what Bill of Bill , I request Act leave of respond now at unabated proposal . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Murray : 
honourable senators , I thank the Leader Deputy of the government ' ses observations and the dapper proposal . 
commentator he the has very richly déclaré , he rereads has referred the Senate a appui General yeas the principle and the objective of what Bill of Bill No. 
however , he rereads has the foreign problems auxquels acclaimed fact allusion some of between us streets their speech lors of health second reading . 
i dispel say very briefly what that I ai at say and I the dis Subcommittee blunt contingency of the notice of Motion that I ai placé appeared you today today . 
he me is perfectly indifférent that we renvoyions the bill to Bill or , commentator the has proposed the senator , the objet of the bill to Bill at the committee unabated week . 
if the senator Hays think that procéder of health sorte fingertips yeas effect of accélérer the examination of the bill to Bill and , fell particular , the study of some problems which acclaimed been Arising , I him apporte mon appui total . 
rejecting said , he rereads has a standpoint that I cannot ai not very well including . 
the Leader Deputy has he proposed series date yeas the report of the committee ? 
the senator Hays : 
the senator Murray : 
what is what that I craignais wheel heard . 
i me explique . 
the senator Kirby , the chairman of the committee , me has guest yesterday at assister at series meeting of the committee of direction with him and Oceans senators Carstairs and LeBreton . 
bye unabated meeting , we awakened past fell magazine Act list of them witnesses potentiels , what is - at - say them people who acclaimed exprimé the desire to apply introduce appeared the committee yeas express their points of standpoint Act the bill to Bill No. 
commentator the chairman of the committee could the confirm , health list is attest . 
i ai said at unabated meeting that I me intéressais davantage - if I puis me express analyzed - at Act quality that at Act quantité . 
i veux veiller at what that foreign summarizing points of standpoint soient exprimés and examinés fell depth . 
i ai trouvé that he not is perhaps - perhaps not necessary to hear all ceux who specialist exprimé the desire to apply introduce appeared we . 
what is however at the senator Kirby that reviendrait Act task désagréable of try to fell persuade some that they not acclaimed not need to perhaps entendus . 
what is always difficult . 
i veux make understand that what serait a travestissement of our duty that the try to make complements the study of the objet of the bill to Bill by the committee before the 2,500 December and that confirms exposerait with reason the Senate and the committee at the sévères criticism . 
honourable senators , the other souhaitent can - perhaps intervene at what topic . 
i cannot ai absolument aucune objection , fell principle , at saisir now the committee of the objet of the bill to Bill and at make examiner the bill to Bill fell committee Whole series once that the committee fingertips fact report at the Senate . 
the government wants that foreign things avancent . 
however , run he can perhaps persuadé of accept a subamendment who résoudrait them problems which acclaimed been Arising here , particularly streets the sector of them care of health , I serais loan at what that we the étudiions and at what that we the renvoyions at Act House of them Commons at time yeas that she puisse the And before the ajournementdu 17 December . 
honourable senators , reassess are them paramètres of health situation telle that I them takers . 
the chairman or telecommunications other members of the committee acclaimed Act parole . 
the Honourable Michael Kirby : 
honourable senators , I ai moi also need to health leave of the Senate yeas prendre Act parole , fault of whereupon mon intervention mettra normally end at the debate at the phase of health seconde Reading , what that I cannot ai not the intent of make . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Kirby : 
honourable senators , commentator of habitude , without doubt because that the senator Murray and moi - even awakened all sides been Opposition of cabinet of a prime minister of them Maritimes , I am fell flavour agreed with him Act everything what that he has said . 
streets some cases , business affinités régionales are much more fortes that foreign affinités political . 
the fact is that the nombreux witnesses acclaimed asked at subpoenas appeared the committee . 
that the snakes veterinary the objet of the bill to Bill at a committee Whole or at the committee of them Affairs payroll , étant heard that mon committee présenterait two reports , me regardless little . 
transport two options we conviennent . 
when the senator Murray said that he wants approfondir Act question , I believe that he exprime the sentiment that we devons we ensure that we comprenons exactly the whereupon he retourne fell what who pertains them care of health , and I am the agreement with him . 
streets Act motion that has présentée the senator Hays , he is obvious that , somewhat regardless if series date définitive is arrêtée , the essentiel is that we entamions our travaux quickly . 
he particulars that the committee seat at compter of afternoon , Monday , until streets Act soirée , and that he fell circulation autant Tuesday and Wednesday . 
the where mon notice of Motion . 
bye the instar of the senator Murray , I believe that we devons commencer at examiner Act question quickly . 
commentator he the said , if the committee semblait arriver at Act conclusion that a subamendment at the bill to Bill guardian justifié , everything commentator him , I estimated that he serait important that the Senate veterinary the bill to Bill at Act House of them Commons at time yeas that she the examine before Senators vacances of Christmas . 
streets the whole , I am the agreement with the senator Murray . 
i cannot ai nothing at redire Act Act substance of the bill to Motion to the senator Hays , at condition that we puissions supprimer Act mention of health date and foremost simply convenir , by wrote or by series entente between them senators , that the committee examinera what Bill of Bill quickly and the genus manner effective . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
i believe that we awakened cherché and trouvé a model who recueille the consent of them ministériels and the Government Opposition referred the Senate . 
i believe that we devrions Refer today today ' bill to Bill at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology . 
til apply is heard yeas that the committee circulation his work and the circulation with célérité , pourvu that he ait toutes them opportunities for hear them witnesses that he Justice necessary to convoquer . 
commentator Act question has been soulevée during the debate , health proposal voulant that the committee envisage of introduce a report fell two parties or two reports distincts not has not tellement of importance . 
the committee sonderait the opinion of ses members and apply prononcerait ensuite . 
we analyzed conscients of them délais parliamentarians that exige Act participation of the another place . 
i am fell measure of say that the Opposition not opposera nil barrier yeas make savoir at the another place that a bon report has been rédigé and series excellente decision prise by the Senate . 
yeas what who is the Day procedure , seen that I ai Act parole , I serais happy to propose series motion , at least that a another senator not veuille intervene Act Act question . 
the senator Hays : 
honourable senators , I devrais can - perhaps indiquer that foreign senators ' what side - ci are disposés at modify Act motion , afin of supprimer Act mention of health date of Presented of the report and , the Government same coup , supprimer the referred at the committee Whole . 
rose heard them senators Murray and Kinsella , I believe that what not is not necessary yeas we . 
by conséquent , I accepte that royal motion not derogation not to reassess elements . 
if what is what that the senator Kinsella has fell tête , I cannot me there oppose not , I am the agreement . 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I request series clarification , car I dois avouer that I cannot comprends not very well what that til we request . 
how individuals witnesses , who are impatients of parler of what Bill of Bill according the senator Kirby , submariners - they help the committee at And the objet of the bill to Bill ? 
i cannot takers not what that all these witnesses , who acclaimed of them doléances at formuler at the hook of lapartie 1 or 2 or the one section quelconque , pourront apporter if the objet is renvoyé at the committee . 
i cannot comprends not what that we tentons of make . 
i cannot veux not brouiller them cartes , but he me seems that we devrions procéder fell two étapes . 
ensuite , business witnesses apply présenteraient appeared the committee yeas parler of the bill to Bill him ? same . 
if we ourselves transformons fell committee Whole , business witnesses who acclaimed comparu appeared the committee étudiant the objet of the bill to Bill submariners - they revert appeared the committee Whole yeas parler of the bill to Bill him ? same ? 
i query wheel of them éclaircissements at the topic of the process and the Day procedure that til we request for suivre . 
is - what what that the government souhaite ? 
the senator Hays : 
honourable senators , I pourrais can - perhaps respond . 
everyone confirms is enough nouveau yeas moi , but I avais them mêmes concerns that the senator . 
he remembered notional here to series question of procedure . 
if the bill to Bill doit stay at the phase of health second reading , Robbie dapper second reading doit stay inscrite at the Paper . 
yeas that the bill to Bill rest sciences fell second reading at the Paper , he doit stay appeared the Senate . 
health motion is présentée commentator she the is yeas that the committee puisse And all levels aspects of the bill to Bill , notamment his objet , what is - at - say the fond of the bill to Bill , and yeas that the bill to Bill rest at the phase of health second reading , what who répond at them concerns exprimées by our vis - at - vis at the topic of health Division of the bill to Bill , unabated question not rose not yet been réglée . 
health motion allows the procéder at the examination of the bill to Bill without make the entorse at Act procedure . 
we awakened Act majority of what side - ci , but you prostituted them outils of the vôtre . 
the but the everything confirms , what is the try to wheel series solution fell vertu of the article 38 rather than the Government section 39 . 
he seems that everyone paving very well . 
i hope well that series motion arranged présentée . 
yeas them reasons that I ai mentionnées , I cannot think not that the bill to Bill anguishes his study not uncovered compromise of the fact that the committee arranged saisi of the objet of the bill to Bill rather than the what last fell activist that tel . 
the senator Murray : 
honourable senators , if you the permettez , I dirai that the referred to the objet of a bill to Bill at a committee is exactly Act same something that what that we avions coutume of make when the study préalable guardian autorisée at the Senate . 
Évidemment , we cannot pouvions , based on plan to health procedure , Refer a bill to Bill at a committee before the Government wheel received from rBST House of them Commons . 
néanmoins , series once that the bill to Bill guardian tabled at Act House of them Commons , yeas facilitate his study at the Senate , we communiquions the objet of the bill to Bill at the committee concerné . 
gerrymandering - ci entendait of them witnesses commentator apply he Partnerships been saisi of the bill to Bill No. 
he faisait ensuite report at the Senate . 
we étions everything at fact libres , when we étions saisis of a bill to Bill , the Refer gerrymandering - ci at a committee and the hear from other witnesses . 
more often that otherwise , before same that the bill to Bill we authorized renvoyé by Act House of them Commons , we avions already obtenu satisfaction of health share of the government understandings at them amendments , notamment . 
the phase of the study fell committee not guardian often introductory that yeas Act form , but Act formula that we utilisions at the Senate , and who ressemble at the study of the objet of the bill to Bill that move : Senator Hays , has long strokes surveillance at the Senate . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
honourable senators , I cannot ai never heard parler of series situation where the Senate has done the study préalable of a bill to Bill who Partnerships already been passed at Act House of them Commons . 
the senator Murray : 
nay , but he rereads has a certain number of precedents by report at what that the senator Hays move . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
the senator Hays has proposed that the committee apply penche Act Act question , but that the bill to Bill rest here . 
the senator Murray : 
what is exact , and he existe a precedent at bearer regard . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
is - what at say that foreign witnesses who comparaîtront appeared the committee emigrate apply settle the parler of the topic , or pourront - they , the blunt way , amener fell douce a copy of the bill to Bill ? 
the senator Murray : 
nay , they not auront not to contraintes at bearer regard . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
Êtes - you fell train of say that everyone confirms not is that series façade ? 
the senator Murray : 
he remembered notional of a mechanism of procedure . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
i cannot takers not who fate winner of dictatorship . 
why déploierions - we to them efforts fell two étapes , Robbie that , fell reality , he not apply agira that the one odyssey and even effort ? 
if I am the odyssey at not not understand , I veux well me taire immediately . 
i cannot comprends not why the topic of a bill to Bill whose the Senate is saisi is renvoyé at a committee which entendra of them witnesses parler of the topic , Robbie that , fell reality , what is the Government Bill of Bill whose they veulent parler . 
arresting - they parler of the bill to Bill same if gerrymandering - ci not has not been renvoyé at the committee ? 
i cannot comprends not unabated part of health procedure . 
the senator Forrestall : 
he remembered notional of the same bill to Bill No. 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
why Robbie not not Refer the bill to Bill and fell finir series once yeas toutes ? 
i cannot essaie not to help the government . 
i veux simply understand Act procedure and facilitate them things . 
the senator Hays : 
honourable senators , til has Points at what mechanism of procedure yeas heed account the foreign reserves of the senator Murray . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
confirms me satisfait , Robbie . 
the senator Hays : 
we pourrions Refer Act seams of the bill to Bill , but he vaudrait better the lire yeas Act second once and the Refer commentator we the cynicism of habitude . 
we awakened been fell communication with the author of the bill to Bill and Main obviate , at savoir the senator Murray , fell opposite . 
we fell impotent arrivés at Act proposal , who is essentially series entente conclue of way transparent Act the parquet of the Senate , at the instead of allegiances them senators appeared a fact accompli , what who aurait without doubt soulevé much of other matters at share of celle of the senator Lynch - Staunton . 
the senator Kinsella : 
honourable senators , a brin of creativity is always the bienvenu . 
the senator Hays has essayé of Welfare créatif . 
however , we awakened cru sage of heed our discussion at the Senate yeas that everyone the world comprenne exactly what that we faisions . 
a grandfather advantage of unabated way of make , what is well course that , if them two sides of the Senate acclaimed series opinion sérieuse and franche Act Act question of savoir if what Bill of Bill contains more of a principle , til rereads arriver at the essentiel thanks at what that diront them witnesses . 
we pourrons analyzed perhaps conseillés by the committee before the us prononcer Act the principle of the bill to Bill No. 
according series hypothèse , fell fact , confirms aiderait at résoudre the problem if the committee recommandait of scinder the bill to Bill No. 
if the bill to Bill revenait with the foreign proposals for amendment , confirms réglerait can - perhaps the problem . 
the nombreuses opportunities apply offrent at the committee . 
what is series way inventive of traiter Act question . 
the senator Hays voudra can - perhaps introduce now dapper motion . 
referred to health seams of the bill to Bill at the committee 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , nonobstant the alinéa 58 ( 1 ) e ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that royal seams of the bill to Bill C - 6 , Act visant at facilitate and at promote the trade électronique fell protégeant them information personnels recueillis , utilisés or releases streets certaines circumstances , fell prévoyant the utilisation of afford électronique yeas communiquer or enregistrer of the information and the foreign transactions and fell amend Act Act Act Act Evidence at the Canada , health Act Act them textes réglementaires and health Act Act Act révision of them laws , authorized renvoyée at the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology ; and 
that he authorized fact report fell two volets : the Prime Act Act part 1 and the second Act them parties 2 at 5 of health law , and that the debate Act Act second reading ait instead by Act subsequently . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the Honourable Consiglio Di Nino : 
honourable senators , I widow obtain a éclaircissement . 
i cannot ai nowhere intention of retarder unabated affair . 
tangibly - he the unanimously or simply series majority of them Senators ? 
the senator Hays : 
honourable senators , the term " leave " Subcommittee - entend the unanimously . 
no regardless breaching Senator could interrupt what process fell refusant of me accorder Act leave of allegiances Act motion at them Senators . 
what is therefore say that he tangibly the unanimously . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
honourable senators , health permision is - she granted ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
Authorized at the committee of sit fell same time that the Senate 
the Honourable Michael Kirby : 
honourable senators , if you me fell donnez Act leave , I reiterate at Act rubrique of them notice of Motion . 
account tenu of health motion which complements everything fair to perhaps adoptée , I request Act leave of the Senate afin of autoriser the committee at apply Camera today today at 3:15 1:30 30 yeas discuss strictly of health list of them witnesses . 
we pourrions Robbie commencer at hear them witnesses tomorrow at the hour habituelle , authorized at 11 hours . 
bye mon notice , the committee voudra discuterun little afin of Welfare fell measure of établir a calendar of them testimony . 
i query that we ourselves occupions of unabated question at the opportunity to our postponement régulière , who has lieuà 15 1:30 30 today today . 
by conséquent , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the alinéa 58 ( 1 ) has ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology puisse sit today today ' Wednesday 24 November at 3:15 1:30 30 same apply he remembered can that series postponement of the Senate authorized Robbie fell surveillance , and that the application of the paragraph 95 ( 4 ) the Government Rules authorized suspendue at bearer regard . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the Honourable Anne C . Cools : 
honourable senators , I tiens at raise series petite question . 
i believe understand that the Honourable Senator has commitments Act parole yeas ask Act leave of revert at them notice of Motion . 
before that royal leave of retourner at unabated rubrique him ait been granted , he has proposed dapper motion . 
i cannot ai not to objection at accorder Act leave demandée at the senator Kirby streets them two case . 
however , we devrions perhaps conscients that he rereads aurait owed there wheel a process fell two étapes . 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , what is Act second once today today that we accordons at a committee Act leave of sit fell same time that the Senate . 
voilà what that I move at the government . 
we devrions adhere the horaire of the Wednesday and convenir of clore the débatà 15 1:30 30 or 16 hours , somewhat regardless where we fell impotent streets the study of them subjects inscrits at the Paper . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
bill to Bill of 1999 Act Act implementation fell implementation of conventions fiscales 
second reading 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Hervieux - Payette , P , seconded by the Honourable Senator Robichaud , P ( Le Acadie - Acadia ) , that the bill deloi S - 3 , Act mettant fell implementation a agreed , the foreign conventions and the foreign protocoles conclu between the Canada and the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , health Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzbékistan , health Jordanie , the Japan and the Luxembourg , fell standpoint of avoid them duplicates impositions and the prévenir the evasion fiscale fell matière of taxes Act the Income , authorized read series second once . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I am very déçu that the auteure of the bill to Bill authorized still absente today today and not puisse not parler of what Bill of Bill No. 
yesterday , I ai listened them propos of the senator Lynch - Staunton regarding the bill to Bill S - 3 . 
he has opened his speech by series remarque very importante . 
confirms touche the bilan fell matière of respect to them rights of health human of a result them country signataires of what treaty , at savoir the Ouzbékistan . 
he me seems , honourable senators , that royal question grave who should perhaps at the spirit of all levels honourable senators is the savoir if , fell activist that country , we voulons envoyer a signal and attirer the attention of them authorities of the Ouzbékistan Act their bilan fell matière of respect to them rights of health human . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton has quoted two reports of Human Rights Watch who parlaient of abuses documentées of them rights of health human and signalaient also that our own Department of them Foreign Foreign Partnerships fell dapper possession a certain number of documents relatifs at the bilan unacceptable of what country fell matière of respect to them rights of health human . 
honourable senators , nonobstant our policy étrangère of commitment constructif whose we awakened the opportunity to parler of time at another streets unabated enceinte , he is question streets what case - ci of series relationship bilatérale . 
he me seems that if the commitment constructif doit signifier whereupon that what authorized , he signifierait much if we pouvions say at a country that we analyzed désolés , but that we cannot impotent not loans at sign a treaty with him at cause of his bilan intérieur fell matière of respect to them rights of health human . 
what is exactly Act reason yeas laquelle we exclurions what country of the application of the bill to Bill S - 3 . 
honourable senators , health issue of abuses flagrantes and régulières of them rights of health human not is not series something that we devrions prendre at Act lightly fell activist that corporation free and democratic . 
commentator them honourable senators ' savent , health resolution 1503 of them Nations Nations parle directly to them abuses flagrantes and régulières of them rights of health human and the Government obligation to all levels members of health community international of prendre of them measures positives and the apporter their soutien direct yeas éliminer what type of abuses of them rights of health human . 
honourable senators , what is series opportunity fell gold yeas the Canada ' lancer a message very clear and Honourable . 
we pouvons say that we cannot retardons not Act implementation fell implementation of treaties at the hook of several country visés by what Bill of Bill , but only fell what who pertains what country fell particular , at cause of ses abuses vérifiées , flagrantes and régulières of them rights of health human . 
confirms we permettra of say that we cannot souhaitons not conclude a treaty with what country . 
honourable senators , that we mettions the accent Act them conventions of Vienne Convey Act Act implementation fell implementation of them treaties internationaux or Act some of them treaties internationaux touchant them rights of the man , commentator the Covenant international relatifaux rights civilians and political or the Covenant international Covenant at them rights Economic , Cultural and Cultural , what are all of them treaties that the Canada , at the instar of much of other countries of the world , has conclus , adoptés and overburdened fell implementation and we devrions porter attention at them rights of health human prévus streets these treaties . 
honourable senators , I thank the senator Lynch - Staunton of wheel attiré our attention Act the fact that the government ' s Canada move that we concluions a treaty with what country particular fell vertu of the same right conventionnel who has chaired at Act conclusion of other treaties that we awakened conclus fell matière of Rights of health human . 
i think therefore , honourable senators , that he is terriblement important that unabated House circulation clearly connaître dapper Position . 
we pouvons decide or well - propose an amendment at the phase of health second reading , before the Refer the bill to Bill at a committee , or well , what who serait better avisé , now that we awakened soulevé officially unabated question , the Refer the bill to Bill at a committee of way at what that foreign senators members of the committee apply emparent of health issue that has soulevée our colleague , the senator Lynch - Staunton , and apply assurent that the foreign representatives of them Foreign Foreign and the other witnesses comparaissent appeared the committee . 
the honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein : 
honourable senators , I voudrais poser series question at the Honourable Senator . 
i cannot ai anguishes heard anguishes read the speech of the senator Lynch - Staunton , but the principle that he évoque is very interesting . 
he we is arrivé of wheel of them échanges at what topic , not only here , but streets of other instances . 
he remembered concentre Act a country particular . 
the Honourable Senator wants - he say that , before the adopt series measure bilatérale fell matière of Tolls , we devrions , commentator the Cutbacks of time fell time them States - U.S. , examiner Act performance of each country part at bearer agreed fell what who pertains them rights of health human ? 
the senator Kinsella : 
honourable senators , I thank the senator Grafstein of dapper question . 
i répondrai streets a prime time that I cannot takers not to inconvénient at what model of monitoring of them rights of the man . 
the experience menée streets of nombreux country , notamment at them States - U.S. , who the acclaimed essayée Subcommittee on regime Carter , run is révélée probante , commentator til the aurait souhaité . 
i accepte at contrecoeur the principle of the commitment constructif . 
i torn yeas Act good reason that I cannot know not who faces hiding derrière unabated administration Public . 
streets them protocoles who gouvernent Act conduct of our agents of Commerce or the our agents at the abroad , I cannot takers nothing who them oblige at indiquer by wrote , streets their reports mensuels or annuels , the number of once where they auront soulevé Act question of them rights of the man , yeas that we puissions exercer a suivi administratif effectif and Auditing the effectiveness réelle of bearer commitment constructif . 
well that the principle me paraisse acceptable fell theory , I cannot believe not that he authorized to application Universal . 
streets the case which we occupies , he remembered notional of series convention fiscale précise . 
he remembered notional of a agreed bilatéral . 
the bill to Bill regroupe much of countries at the number desquels apply fell trouve unfortunately a who we oblige at examiner Act question . 
fell second instead , I souhaite that we soyons of series precision chirurgicale fell what who has trait at these agreements bilatéraux . 
i examinerais yeas ma share them offender of each country fell matière of Rights of the man and I déciderais fell function of what that I aurais observé if I tiens or non at give subsequently at the agreement them regarding , or still if I cannot voudrais not utiliser bearer instrument of our policy étrangère yeas attirer their attention Act the problem . 
the senator Grafstein : 
commentator doit the savoir the senator , business States - U.S. acclaimed adopted a system , that we cannot awakened not yet fact ours - well that he seems that telle authorized the intent of the nouveau Minister of them Foreign Foreign streets dapper nouvelle policy Act Act security humaine - fell vertu duquel series assessment Annual is effectuée by countries , sometimes by region , the foreign abuses choquantes of them rights and freedoms of them individus . 
the Département of State them observance regularly and thin Cutbacks the objet of debates streets them two Houses of the Congress validate . 
we awakened préféré not not suivre what model . 
we awakened decided délibérément of not not make the links . 
i cannot know not breaching side of health bobsled I finirais not adopt at Act light of health nouvelle policy of security of them persons who has been formulée by the minister responsables of them Foreign extérieures and who has been réitérée by the Prime Minister . 
however , if we devons we engager streets unabated voie , he serait generally préférable of heed a debate here afin of permettre at all levels honourable senators ' fell venir at series conclusion understandings at Act voie at suivre , at the instead of us fell prendre at a country fell particular concerné by a bill to Bill No. 
i discredit yeas Act first once a coup of oeil rapide at the bill to Bill and I constate that he rereads has a or two or perhaps - perhaps even three other countries - and I fais well attention at what that I dis fell the occurrence - at propos desquels til can probably affirmer Act same something , the afternoon of them sections of newspapers , fell parlant of series form systématique of abuses flagrantes of them rights of health human . 
i brevity the Honourable Senator of fell opposite of wheel soulevé unabated question . 
before the us allegiances at adopt the foreign solutions of exception , I préfère that he circulation of them observations yeas savoir if we devrions participate or non at what debate and see if we cannot devrions not examiner systematically Subcommittee bearer angle them bills of Bill of unabated nature . 
i trouverais Robbie more rassurant of fonctionner according a framework préétabli at the instead of procéder according the inspiration of the moment . 
the senator Kinsella : 
series something which me complements at the spirit fell response at Act question of the Honourable Senator , what is that he is necessary to réagir vigoureusement at them abuses of them rights of health human attribuables at Act mauvaise volonté . 
when til apply fell rend account very clearly , he tangibly agir yeas contrer these abuses of them rights of health human by mauvaise volonté . 
streets the case of a type systémique , institutionnel or historic of discrimination , I am entièrement of agreement with you . 
he tangibly wheel series policy more réfléchie and more générale . 
confirms pertains all levels aspects of health policy international , there including the trade international and health dynamic of the interest attain . 
gold , streets all levels case of abuses of them rights of health human , he not is not necessary to wait series improvement of health situation of them rights of health human yeas appliquer at series situation empoisonnée a kind systémique or institutionnel of solution . 
he rereads has the foreign case where the snakes can constater clearly what kind of violation and apply there attaquer directly . 
i cannot believe not that what treaty authorized essentiel yeas the interest of the country . 
he could however perhaps interesting because that he is always bon of wheel of them treaties with several country . 
however , the Parliament could certainly attirer much of attention apply he annonçait that he account exclure a certain country . 
he is certain that the foreign discussions Languages acclaimed strokes instead before that the bill to Bill fell arrive at unabated phase and the foreign questions acclaimed owed perhaps posées . 
transport officials apply pencheront also Act our discussions and our debate on bearer after - afternoon and they apply rendront account that foreign Canadians prennent them standards relatives at them rights of health human at the sérieux . 
the Honourable Consiglio Di Nino : 
honourable senators , I query pursue streets Act same veine that the senator Kinsella . 
i am the agreement with him . 
honourable senators , I believe that we devrions we pencher Act Act question . 
the debate on yesterday correspond well at our discussion of today today because that we parlons of series relationship bilatérale with a certain number of States différents . 
we awakened conclu of them ententes , the foreign protocoles and the foreign conventions similaires with almost all levels country at the world . 
the senator Kinsella has indiqué that traiter with the state which fact the objet of the debate froisse his sense of the at - propos , car he remembered notional of a Crown connu yeas wheel violé them rights of health human . 
however , I believe that the senator Kinsella conviendrait that the foreign dizaines of countries acclaimed the same triste bilan . 
i query also me assure that we comprenons that he not apply notional not simply the sign a agreed . 
he remembered notional of sign a agreed who introduces the exchange of informations Act to them companies and the foreign individus analyzed that Act them Affairs - Provincial Canadians with some of these countries étrangers . 
confirms me preoccupation , car , very frankly , I cannot fais not confidence at some of these States yeas that these informations restent confidentielles . 
if I fais of them Affairs with a result these States , commentator what is the case currently yeas Act society Talisman at the Soudan , I devrais accept the risk that certaines informations that mon country donnerait at the government soudanais at mon topic and at the topic of ma company not soient not also protégées that thin the petitioners fell vertu of health law of other countries of the world . 
what is a another aspect that we devrions examiner more carefully . 
i ai soulevé unabated question yesterday because that , he rereads has several months , we awakened strokes affair at a bill to Bill similaire at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign and we awakened posé them mêmes questions that today today . 
i cannot ai not the impression that we ayons never obtenu of responses . 
bye mon notice , the committee apte at examiner what Bill of Bill is the committee of them Affairs Foreign . 
we pouvons reprendre them observations that acclaimed faites them senators Lynch - Staunton , Kinsella and Grafstein and continue to ask at them representatives of the Department of respond at them questions that we awakened posées Act dernière once that we awakened examiné a bill to Bill similar . 
the Honourable LoisM. Wilson : 
honourable senators , I am heureuse that the Opposition of the Opposition ait soulevé unabated question . 
she apply sciences streets the nouveau debate Act Act Position of the Canada at the hook of them rights of health human . 
til has mentioned that the Ouzbékistan , the same that the Soudan and several other countries , posaient a problem . 
he seems that til examine these cases of way ponctuelle . 
i am the notice that til not can appliquer series policy générale who convienne at all levels country . 
sometimes , the foreign sanctions are imposées ; sometimes , til adopte series policy of commitment constructif . 
he can ceased différentes stratégies applicables at différents country . 
i think that the Senate has need to series gallery yeas explorer these issues . 
the committee which convient streets what case - ci is perhaps - perhaps the committee of them Affairs Foreign , and non the committee of them Banking . 
he tangibly examiner confirms , authorized here , at the surveillance of a debate flavour , authorized fell committee . 
i hope that the committee auquel what Bill of Bill arranged renvoyé étudiera seriously Act question and fell fera share at the Senate . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I cannot voudrais not prevent the other honourable of aborder unabated question , but them senators ministériels aimeraient that what Bill of Bill authorized renvoyé at a committee . 
commentator he has been presented here , he doit perhaps submitted at the approval of health House of them Commons . 
i présume that he serait relatively easy to there apporter a subamendment , fell what sense that , if we supprimions , by example , the word Ouzbékistan , he not we serait not retourné . 
the Department of them Foreign Foreign joue a role at the hook of these treaties , but he fell paving the same yeas the Department of them Finance and yeas Revenue Canada , puisque what are the foreign conventions fiscales . 
if them propos referendums at the surveillance of the debate are exacts , and I cannot ai aucune reason for fell douter , we devrions we ask why we devrions negotiate series convention fiscale with a country which has a triste bilan fell matière of Rights of health human . 
why conclude a treaty with what country ? 
transport persons them more qualifiées yeas respond at unabated question are them officials who acclaimed négocié the treaty , who the acclaimed conclu . 
understandings at Act question who preoccupation the senator Di Nino , at savoir at breaching committee unabated measure should perhaps renvoyée , I ai asked to them information sur what who faces fact of habitude . 
the blunt évidence , health measure could perhaps renvoyée at the committee of them Banking or at gerrymandering of them Affairs Foreign . 
he remembered can that the committee of them Banking , after wheel examined the bill to Bill , the veterinary at the committee of them Affairs Foreign . 
the blunt way , the afternoon what that I ai heard at the surveillance of the debate , the study of what Bill of Bill not apply fera not fault that the snakes pose them questions that we awakened entendues here . 
what is at the committee that these issues repositories apply poser . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
plaît - he at them senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée and the bill to Bill is read series second once . ) 
referred at the committee 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series third once ? 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I move that the bill to Bill S - 3 authorized renvoyé at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Banking and the Government trade . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
plaît - he at them senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I observance that the last treaty fiscal whose we awakened been saisis , the bill to Bill S - 16 , has been renvoyé at the committee of them Affairs Foreign . 
he concernait the Vietnam , health Croatia and the Chile . 
the committee of them Affairs Foreign has done to them recommendations intéressantes Act , between other things , health protection of them information personnels and health ability to them country signataires of allegiances fell implementation with success them parties to the treaty . 
he serait pity of rompre Act continuité that the snakes trouve streets the report of what committee fell renvoyant of them bills of Bill of Nature similaire at a another committee . 
i urge the Leader Deputy at reconsidérer Act question and at propose that the bill to Bill authorized renvoyé at the committee of them Affairs Foreign . 
the senator Hays : 
honourable senators , yeas what who is the foreign precedents , at the surveillance of health 35e législature , two measures legislatures regarding the foreign conventions fiscales , business projetsde bill C - 105 and S - 2 , laughed been examinées by the committee of them Banking . 
streets Act second session of health 35e législature , a treaty fiscal , the bill to Bill C - 37 , has also been examiné . 
he has also been renvoyé at the committee sénatorial of them Banking . 
some acclaimed can - perhaps series meilleure memory that moi Act what topic , but I dois say , fell blunt franchise , that til me has explained that the bill to Bill Partnerships been renvoyé at the committee of them Affairs Foreign because that the committee of them Banking guardian surchargé of work . 
what is why , according moi , health majority of them bills of Bill , exception introductory of the bill to Bill S - 16 , laughed been renvoyés at the committee of them Banking . 
honourable senators , if the committee of them Banking fact well his work , he rereads cerner everything problem similar at ceux that foreign honourable senators acclaimed Arising , streets the framework of the debate Act the bill to Bill S - 3 . 
bye the need , til rereads recommander that the bill to Bill authorized renvoyé at the committee of them Affairs Foreign yeas there perhaps more amplement examiné . 
i insiste still series once Act the fact that he remembered notional of a bill to Bill émanant of the Senate . 
what not is not a bill to Bill that we awakened received from rBST House . 
we awakened a little more of souplesse at bearer regard . 
i think that the fact of Refer traditionnellement them treaties fiscaux at the committee of them Banking is useful because that royal fiscalité is a aspect important to what Bill of Bill No. 
what is the aspect the most important to the bill to Bill , but apply he is question of a country with lequel we cannot voulons not make affair at cause of his file fell matière of respect to them rights of health human , confirms devient a another aspect important . 
a country has been appointed , and the other senator uncovered at the surveillance of the debate . 
however , health meilleure way of procéder fell unabated matière BNA at And of thanking them considérations fiscales , puis , at the need , at And Act measure at the committee of them Affairs Foreign . 
the Honourable Consiglio Di Nino : 
honourable senators , I think that what not is not very important at breaching committee what Bill of Bill is renvoyé . 
however , étant rose that the bill to Bill traite primarily of them relations bilatérales between two country , the committee of them Affairs Foreign could perhaps gerrymandering who serait the most apte at the examiner . 
perhaps - perhaps the Leader Deputy of the government arranged he ' agreed with Act recommendation voulant that the committee expecting them questions who acclaimed been soulevées at the Senate , authorized certainly them questions liées at them rights of health human , but also them questions liées at Act confidentialité and health protection of health life privacy streets the case of them échanges of information with some of these States . 
bye mon notice , we cannot awakened not examined these issues at fond Act dernière once 
transport senators here présents admits all the problem . 
composite of them committees can make the work and respond at them questions that we awakened soulevées . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , if the debate on yesterday and the today today doit perhaps commitments at the sérieux , what are Robbie these issues regarding Casual rights of health human at the échelle international who retiennent the attention durant the debate on second reading . 
unfortunately , the mover of the bill to Bill , who has amorcé the debate Act the principle of the bill to Bill , not apply gives same not Act peine of venir débattre them nouvelles questions and the us serve the guide . 
i ai trouvé instructif the debate on them derniers days . 
i ai well obtenu a report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign daté of the 28 May 1998 . Le Senator Lynch - Staunton there has done allusion . 
he remembered agissait of the projetde bill S - 16 , who ressemblait at gerrymandering whose we analyzed now saisis . 
streets the sixth report of what committee , business members of gerrymandering - ci acclaimed said wheel two grandes concerns . 
the thanking , they acclaimed proposed that , before that the government ' s Canada présente a bill to Bill similar streets the future , the Department of them Foreign Foreign and the Government Commerce international gives the EI at the Senate that he has procédé at series présélection of them country signataires yeas Auditing their ability to implementation fell implementation réussie of them ententes and conventions pertinentes . 
our committee of them Affairs Foreign apply is already penché Act what principle . 
the committee could very well decide that he tangibly inclure streets the bill to Bill series provision Act the respect to them rights of health human . 
i believe that what serait series measure welcome and Progressive . 
confirms framework everything at fact with the orientation générale of our debate fell second reading . 
the committee of them Affairs Foreign has already examiné unabated solution streets the case of a treaty similar . 
i am the agreement with the senator Hays Act what that he has said at the topic of health part fiscale because that royal second recommendation portait Act Act implementation fell place to them systems of data fiscales nécessaires streets them two country and based Act protection of them information personnels . 
account tenu of the debate which has strokes instead at the Senate , he serait everything at fact indiqué that the bill to Bill authorized renvoyé at the committee sénatorial of them Affairs Foreign . 
i voudrais same propose an amendment , if I the dispel , at least that the senator Hays not loses of idea . 
the senator Hays : 
honourable senators , at mon notice , the bill to Bill should the thanking perhaps renvoyé appeared the committee of them Banking , who fell étudierait the Main objective . 
he could ensuite perhaps renvoyé at the committee of them Affairs Foreign if what is what that the Senate widow . 
some arguments very valables acclaimed been Arising . 
i cannot ai aucune objection at what that the committee of them Affairs Foreign expecting the bill to Bill , but he remembered could well that he rereads ait strokes series présélection . 
he remembered could that he rereads ait series good reason for inclure what country or some other countries . 
the senator Di Nino : 
voulez - you parier a dinner ? 
the senator Hays : 
i cannot am not joueur . 
the bill to Bill has been passed fell second reading and I ai asked that he authorized renvoyé at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Banking and the Government trade . 
i cannot ai aucune objection at modify ma motion yeas that the bill to Bill authorized renvoyé at what committee , puis at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign yeas a another review . 
if the Senate me fell gives Act leave , I believe power modify ma motion . 
the senator Kinsella : 
with Act leave of the Senate , you the pouvez . 
the senator Hays : 
i move that til ajoute series particulars disant " pourvu that the committee sénatorial Standing of them Banking and the Government trade circulation unabated recommendation " . 
what is analyzed that I formulerais Act motion . 
the Honourable LoisM. Wilson : 
honourable senators , I serais satisfaite that the bill to Bill authorized renvoyé at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Banking and the Government trade , pourvu that the Leader Deputy the informe of the debate suscité by unabated question and the everything what who faces is past at the committee of them Affairs Foreign . 
when business members of the committee étudieront the bill to Bill , they sauront that these points acclaimed already been Arising and they pourront them Refer at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign . 
pouvons - we perhaps assurés that he fell arranged analyzed ? 
the senator Hays : 
til doit compter Act the fact that our colleagues at the Senate lisent the Hansard . 
i guess that he is possible that some not the fassent not also assidûment that til the souhaiterait . 
i cannot am not certain of power promettre what that demand the Honourable Senator . 
i me commits at make everything what that I dispel yeas that the chairman of the committee of them Banking lise the debate on today today . 
i hope that he the lira . 
i invite the Honourable Senator at fell discuss with him . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
senator Hays , your motion door she Presented of thanking at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Banking and the Government trade , and ensuite at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign ? 
the senator Hays : 
if the committee of them Banking the recommends . 
is - what acceptable ? 
the senator Kinsella : 
unabated part not is not conforme at the rules . 
the Order doit venir of the Senate . 
the senator Hays : 
i me fell tiendrai therefore at ma recommendation précédente . 
i move therefore , with Act leave of the Senate and pursuant at the article 30 of the rules : 
that the bill to Bill authorized renvoyé at the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Banking and the Government trade and that , series once the study of what Comité terminée , he authorized ensuite renvoyé at the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign yeas review at bearer place . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
question of privilege 
the Honourable Lise Bacon : 
honourable senators , I ai rose notice of mon intention of raise Act question of privilege at the topic of the committee sénatorial Standing of them transport and the foreign Communications . 
commentator you the savez without doubt , honourable senators , what committee Standing has been authorized at And Act question of health restructuring of the industry to the transportation aérien at the Canada pursuant at the Order of referred to the Senate fell date of the 14 October 1999 . 
pursuant at the Order of referred , the committee doit introduce his report before the 15 December 1999 . Sous ma Ruling , the committee has tenu 8 meetings translated lors desquelles he has heard 53 witnesses . 
health week dernière , we awakened interrompu our hearings translated and awakened began the study of them ébauches of the report . 
we fell impotent now at Act third ébauche . 
we awakened well commitments soin of avoid that blunt publicity authorized introductory Act our deliberations . 
toutes them ébauches étaient marquées " ébauche " and " confidentiel " . 
lors of our meeting Act Act first ébauche , I ai commitments well soin of distribute of them copies sideshow at them senators présents , copies that I ai ensuite recueillies at Act end of health meeting . 
yeas the study of health second ébauche , I ai fact parvenir , health veille of our rencontre , series copy at each senator member of the committee . 
contrairement at Act meeting précédente , faisant confidence at the integrity of them senators and the their adjoints and voulant their laisser Act possibility of réfléchir more longuement at the content of the report , I cannot ai not récupéré them copies of unabated second ébauche of our report . 
yesterday evening , few hours at peine after Act meeting of the committee , I ai learned that a journalist of health Presse canadienne Partnerships fell dapper possession series copy of the ébauche numéro 2 of our report . 
the Soleil of Quebec , streets his edition of what morning , publie a section wrote by what same journalist of health Presse canadienne streets lequel til can lire , and I quote : 
streets a report appeared perhaps tabled tomorrow at the Senate , business members of health House upper , Liberals and Conservatives , run are entendus afin of accorder at them carriers trillion the Authorized to ensure Act Liaison aérienne between various destinations Forces [ ... ] 
and the reporter , faisant mention of the committee of them transport and the foreign Communications , Turcot his article fell écrivant : 
the Hon. side , the Toronto Star has also released today today a section streets lequel til can lire rejecting : 
according our sources , til apply attend at what that the committee sénatorial , who is based on standpoint of achever his report , moved to porter at 33,3p. cent Act proportion of them actions of Air Canada pouvant perhaps détenues by a odyssey actionnaire , laquelle is currently the 10p. cent , and the porter Act proportion of them actions pouvant perhaps détenues by the foreign interests étrangers at 49p. cent , against 25p. cent currently . 
i am prête at déposer , if necessary , series copy of the Quorum where them sections mentionnés acclaimed been reproduits . 
honourable senators , unabated fuite door atteinte at the bon déroulement of them travaux actuels of the committee of them transport and Communications . 
well that foreign informations étalées today today streets them media 6,000 of series ébauche of a report which no is always not finalisé , thin risquent of teinter heavily Act perception that fingertips the public of our report final . 
commentator I the ai already said , our report no is not terminé . 
we devons still discuss the several points . 
unfortunately , health fuite and Oceans reactions that she provoquerait palatable entraver Act reflection sereine and éclairée of them members of the committee . 
au - delà of them dommages subis at the committee that I ai the honour to présider , series telle fuite is dommageable at the whole of them travaux of them committees of the Senate . 
what is Act confidentialité of our discussions which is fell cause , and , by the fact same , health ability to them senators at débattre freely of them questions who we are référées . 
yeas make correctement what that til we request , we devons wheel Act certainty that the work that we effectuons at camera closed rest confidentiel . 
nothing to what who faces is déroulé fell committee not doit perhaps divulgué before that the committee not ait fact report at Act House . 
streets the same commentaire , til retrouve them propos suivants , and I quote : 
constitue series atteinte at the privilege the fact of publier them deliberations of a committee tenues at camera closed or the foreign reports of committees before that they not aient been overburdened at Act provision of them Members . 
he is surprenant that series telle something arrive at the Senate , series institution responsible and transparent and who rend account publicly of ses activities . 
he is therefore unacceptable that til sente the need to tribute accessibles at them media of them documents which , the blunt way , auraient been rendus publics when business decisions finales auraient been prises . 
unfortunately , unabated fuite complements apply add at the other events similaires who faces are déroulés dernièrement at the Breast of our institution . 
the 14 September last , the senator Andreychuk has tabled series question of privilege that she has réintroduite the 13 October last at the topic of series fuite who faces serait produite at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Peoples aboriginal . 
i hope that we saurons we ressaisir at time yeas allegiances a term at these incidents who minent Act credibility of our institution . 
series atmosphère of respect and the collégialité has always régné at the Breast of the committee of them transport and the foreign Communications . 
i ai a immense respect yeas them members of the committee . 
what is why I am profondément surprise that series telle something puisse arriver . 
i ignore how unabated fuite has avoided what produire . 
i cannot know not if what is the way intentionnelle , accidentelle or by neglect . 
however , unabated fuite has strokes instead and constitue therefore , at mon sense , series atteinte at the privilege of the Senate . 
i request that you statuiez fell what sense . 
i serai Robbie fell measure of introduce Act motion suivante : 
that royal question authorized renvoyée at the Comité Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure yeas that he circulation inquiry . 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , I supports Act motion whose we analyzed saisis . 
series vérification auprès of them senators ' our side has produced all levels reports , we savons where apply trouvent our exemplaires . 
i cannot VI human fell particular . 
the senator Bacon has said that he pouvait apply agir of series fuite by inadvertance or by neglect , or the genus fuite délibérée . 
what who is important , streets the case présent , is that the affair authorized renvoyée at the committee , with the degree of priority that she deserves , afin that he not there ait nil doubt that til has respecté them convenances . 
that we tirions the affair at the clear or non regardless less than them risks potentiels . 
streets what report , we parlons between other of the degree of control of Quebecer by the foreign interests étrangers or by a odyssey actionnaire . 
confirms could give instead at the foreign spéculations who palatable make wrongly non only at the industry aérienne and at them investors , but mostly at Act confidence that foreign Canadians acclaimed vis - at - vis our institution and health manner whose she opère . 
the Honourable Serge Joyal : 
honourable senators , I voudrais me associer at them propos of them senators Bacon and Forrestall . 
i ai the privilege of participate at them travaux of the committee of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure . 
health issue soulevée by the senator Bacon is the genus certaine way already étudiée at our committee puisque the Honourable Senator Andreychuk has already soulevé series question similiaire he rereads has something time . 
he rereads has therefore a virus streets the system . 
if the telles situations apply répètent at courte échéance , what is that he rereads has certainly the foreign persons streets our group , til not knows not lesquelles , who never acclaimed not series idea précise of their responsibility . 
i me permets of attirer your attention Act Act way whose the Parliament of health Britain - Britain traite of them questions similaires . 
i voudrais attirer your attention Act two decisions of health House of them Commons at London who acclaimed suspendu pendant10 days , without salary , a Member who Partnerships 3.25 the report of a committee before that the committee not ait authorized dapper divulgation . 
what MP , I the répète , has been suspendu during 10 days without salary . 
streets a another case , who has been released fell October last , two Members acclaimed fact the objet of sanctions of health share of the committee of health House of them Commons britannique , gerrymandering who has asked the report and gerrymandering who the has rose . 
transport two acclaimed been overburdened at the amende , business two acclaimed been suspendus yeas of them périodes raisonnables . 
they acclaimed owed apply lever and introduce to them excuses at their colleagues at Act House of them Commons britannique . 
unabated question is prise extremely at the sérieux streets our system Parliamentary and streets Act tradition who we gouverne . 
health reason fell is simple , commentator the has explained the senator Bacon , and I quote them propos of the committee britannique : 
what is at unabated phase that the foreign pressure extérieures palatable perhaps exercées yeas influencer them findings of the report . 
if the moindre soupçon existait at bearer regard , everything the system of them committees spéciaux could perhaps 3.25 fell question . 
nil of our committees not could accomplir dapper task and make report at unabated House of series manner valable and responsible if , at the phase importante and cruciale of health rédaction of ses reports , business ébauches of ceux - ci apply mettaient at flotter , excusez the expression , at gauche and at droite .. 
he is , by conséquent , extremely important - and I regarde ma colleague , the senator DeWare , who fact part of the committee of them privileges , the Government Réglement and the Day procedure - that these issues , who acclaimed been soulevées by the senator Andreychuk and the senator Bacon , puissent make the objet of series study of health share of the committee . 
we pourrions analyzed ourselves hear non only Act the Ethics that we ourselves engagerons all at suivre but also , unfortunately , based on system of sanctions that we devrions allegiances fell place yeas apply ensure that the foreign incidents malheureux of unabated nature not apply répètent more . 
what is therefore streets unabated optique , honourable senators , that I query appuyer them propos of them senators Bacon and Forrestall . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I voudrais add few mots . 
he is malheureux that royal question of privilege authorized soulevée at nouveau at propos of facts almost identiques . 
i parle , well course , the Day question of privilege soulevée by the senator Andreychuk auprès of the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure . 
i ajouterai that she seems rather explicite , account tenu of the precedent where Act Ruling , rose at decide whether series question of privilege guardian fondée , has quoted the commentaire 877 , at Act page 250 of health sixth edition of health Jurisprudence Parliamentary of Beauchesne , who introduces rejecting : 
nothing to what who faces is déroulé fell committee not doit perhaps divulgué before that the committee not ait fact report at Act House . 
and still : 
constitue series atteinte at the privilege the fact of publier them deliberations of a committee tenues at camera closed or the foreign reports of committees before that they not aient been overburdened at Act provision of them Members . 
fell consequential , Your Honour , confirms seems rather explicite and I you urge also at considérer unabated affair commentator fondée afin that she authorized renvoyée at the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure . 
the Honourable Joan Fraser : 
honourable senators , I veux appuyer moi also Act motion of the senator Bacon . 
what is Act fuite and non Act publication who is at condemn . 
the Honourable Anne C . Cools : 
honourable senators , I voudrais participate very briefly at the debate . 
the objet of what debate doit perhaps perfectly clear . 
the debate VI at convince Act Ruling that he rereads has bel and well strokes atteinte at the privilege and that she doit accorder here Act blunt first priority at unabated question . 
yeas appuyer what that Mrs. the senator Bacon has said , I me brevity of his initiative , and I Act thank the wheel exposé them facts . 
fell of other termes , the content of them bills of Report not doit not perhaps divulgué at them media and at the public before the tabling of the report at the Senate . 
inutile of the say , what problem seems revert without cesse and even prendre of the ampleur , and he is obvious that he requiert our attention . 
i observance that the senator Andreychuk has soulevé series question similar the 14 September . 
i believe wheel participated at what debate . 
the nouveau , the 13 October , the senator Andreychuk has soulevé the same problem , and I him ai aussitôt accordé mon appui . 
health vraie question who faces pose at us , honourable senators , is celle of savoir apply he rereads has présomption of atteinte at the privilege . 
i screwed at Your Honour that the nombreux senators seem perhaps the bearer notice . 
decision to health Ruling 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
honourable senators , if nil another senator not wants prendre Act parole , I rendrai ma decision . 
i voudrais thank the senator Bacon and all levels honourable senators who acclaimed participated at the debate . 
i me souviens that the senator Molgat , at the month of September last , Partnerships been saisi of series question similar . 
i accepte therefore Act question of privilege soulevée by the senator Bacon . 
i move that royal question authorized renvoyée at the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure yeas that he circulation inquiry . 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
health freedom religieuse fell China fell report with them pactes internationaux of them Nations Nations 
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate 
the Honourable LoisM. Wilson prend Act parole pursuant at the notice of inquiry suivant presented the 17 November 1999 : 
perhaps honourable senators , the Government 23 October at the 5 November last , series delegation of seven persons organisée by the Council Heritage of them Églises has examined , with the assistance to the Department of them Foreign Foreign and the Government Commerce international , business challenges auxquels our partners chinois Cutbacks opposite streets Act practice religieuse fell China . 
transport delegates , who représentent them principales Églises chrétiennes at the Canada , laughed widely puisé streets their history institutionnelle centennial with their partners chinois yeas And Act protection of health freedom religieuse fell China . 
Incidence them contacts ultérieurs possibles , notons series rencontre between series delegation canadienne interconfessionnelle and a group interconfessionnel fell China , and series rencontre at the Tibet . 
health delegation apply is rendue là streets the spirit of the commitment constructif , streets the but the partager of them points of standpoint Act Act way whose of them laws touchant Act freedom of religion arresting refléter them obligations internationales prescribed at them termes of them two pactes of them Nations Nations relatifs at them rights of the man that royal China envisage of ratify . 
health delegation comprenait that she faisait she - even subsequently at a result them nombreux agreements bilatéraux conclus between the Canada and health China and that she venait complements them missions of assessment of them needs envoyées fell China by the Haut Commissioner of them Nations Nations at them rights of the man , Mary Robinson . 
confirms offers a program global of cooperation technical streets the administration of health justice , health reform legislative and the other domaines of them rights of health human . 
during these two weeks , health delegation has visited six cities and discussed the issues with a large éventail of representatives of the Church and the Government government , there including the subamendment - Minister of them Foreign Foreign of health China and the steering of the Bureau of them Affairs religieuses . 
transport reportages occidentaux who portent primarily Act Act persécution religieuse fell China , business arrestations and Oceans détentions arbitraires , analyzed that foreign abuses of them rights of health human , are vus at travers the prisme of our culture . 
transport arrestations of persons yeas of them motifs political are rapportées without aucune explanation , if what not is that til précise that foreign intéressés acclaimed violé Act bill chinoise , and what is generally perçu by foreign Canadians commentator series violation of health freedom of religion and the foreign rights of the man . 
some of these reportages are without nil doubt exacts . 
what is the side sombre of health life of them communaut religieuses fell China . 
however , til not précise never what that foreign laws and Oceans regulations touchant Act religion disent and Oceans reasons yeas lesquelles they acclaimed been overburdened fell place and why the foreign sanctions are prescribed yeas ceux who them violent . 
health constitution of health Republic popular of China découle of series history marquée by the confucianisme , health revolution marxiste and health necessity of contrôler , the ensure Act stability and the Order streets Act management of a country which has 1,3 1.1 of residents and series history and a context well différents of the ours . 
health delegation not has never visited series city who Partnerships less of 10 million for residents . 
health constitution garantit Act freedom of croyance of them citizens and protège them activities religieuses normales . 
however , she never garantit not Act freedom of them croyants of manifester or the pratiquer unabated croyance and not définit not non more what that til entend by foreign activities religieuses normales if what not is yeas say that person cannot can utiliser Act religion yeas apply livrer at the foreign activities who perturbent the Order public . 
unabated Zone grise explique certaines of them limits that foreign Chinois imposent at Act freedom religieuse whose we entendons parler fell Occident and , at cause of unabated ambiguïté , ceux who are chargés of administrer them regulations , mostly streets of them regions locales very éloignées of Beijing , arresting abuser of these provisions . 
health constitution précise also clearly that foreign agencies religieux not are not submitted at something form of domination étrangère that what authorized . 
confirms tient at the fact that royal China redoute them intentions of health collectivité religieuse international who has overburdened at evil dapper sovereignty streets the past . 
account tenu of the orientation heavily privatisée of groups religieux désireux of prêcher sideshow the salut individuel streets a country which attache much of price at Act collectivité , particularly when these groups viennent of Los Angeles or the Taiwan , they there are perçus commentator series ingérence étrangère . 
two ensembles of regulations permettent of veiller at what that royal religion not devienne not series source of déstabilisation or the threat at Act security national . 
transport regulations découlent of series interpretation according laquelle Act freedom is associée at the foreign rights collectifs ; fell Occident , however , til met davantage the accent Act them rights individuels . 
each centre of activité religieuse is tenu of apply inscrire auprès of the government and the satisfaire at six criteria , authorized compter a instead of culte , a dirigeant formé , a certain number of adhérents , a committee of management , series source légale of incomes and a name yeas a instead of meeting . 
he is important to consigned that fell China , everything group Housing is tenu of apply inscrire auprès of the government , exigence who never apply limite not at them groups religieux . 
confirms apply sciences streets the fact that the snakes met the accent Act them rights collectifs . 
the fact , the Académie of them Science payroll of Shanghai has déclaré that foreign chrétiens étaient of bons citizens chinois . 
our partners of the Church protestante acclaimed formé the Council chrétien of China , series church post - confessionnelle at the Breast of laquelle them persons seniors apply disent of Veterans Presbyterians , the Veterans anglicans , and analyzed of subsequently . 
unabated church is entièrement chinoise streets Act measure where she hook ses origines of the movement said " Three - Self Patriotic " , everything commentator he fell paving the dapper Economy , the ses finances and the dapper théologie . 
transport partners grab streets them regulations series measure of protection of their activity and series garantie against blunt ingérence of health share of Chinois non croyants , commentator confirms apply is produced during Act revolution culturelle . 
thanks at unabated protection , business churches protestantes of China familiar series growth phénoménale and their Main problem BNA at former enough to leaders of talent yeas satisfaire at Act request . 
we awakened rencontré series jeune wife who , by example , after wheel received series training of three months , is now chargée of the orientation spirituelle de1 40,000 persons . 
well that minoritaires fell China , business chrétiens of what country are nettement more nombreux that foreign chrétiens at the Canada . 
health situation of them catholiques is différente . 
transport churches catholiques enregistrées are désignées Subcommittee on behalf of Church patriotique and thin appuient them political Change , by example Act policy Act the child unique . 
confirms focuses at the recrutement of them prêtres , puisque little of families accepteraient that their odyssey child choisisse unabated vocation , empêchant Act transmission of the name of family , even if their devise could perhaps " Chinois and Catholic at share entière " . 
ceux who , by choice or by Act strength of them things , run réunissent yeas prier at the Breast of groups non enregistrés arresting the make yeas several reasons : the allégeance of them croyants at series autorité or series influence étrangère ; the refusal of Welfare confiné at a odyssey instead of rencontre ; the refusal of apply soumettre at the autorité of the association of them Chinois catholiques patriotiques or the Government Council chinois of them churches chrétiennes ; or finally the acceptation of the post and the foreign practices hétérodoxes susceptibles of menacer the Order public . 
he rereads has also them cultes . 
transport Chinois familiar very well them cultes who existent at the Canada and , at the Académie of them Science payroll , a professor we took interrogés at the topic of the culte connu Subcommittee on behalf of health " bénédiction of Toronto " , établi close to the airport Pearson and whose you prostituted can - perhaps already heard parler . 
nil of us not the connaissait directly , if well that we devions we proud at the foreign til - said yeas respond at them questions . 
health China has promulgué series bill Act them cultes the last day to our visit . 
all our partners without exception , the same that the government , considéraient the Falun Gong commentator series organization déstabilisatrice , nuisible and at influence étrangère . 
according eux , unabated organization is very popular auprès of them Chinois less instruits and more vulnerable , who are perhaps - perhaps still isolés of health modernization and the foreign benefits of health médecine modern . 
our delegation not has not commitments Position Act them enseignements of the movement Falun Gong . 
lors of our rencontre with the subamendment - Minister of them Foreign Foreign , Yang Jiechi , I ai fact état of various concerns at the name of the minister of them Foreign Foreign of the Canada . 
premièrement , I ai said that foreign Canadians apply inquiétaient much of them arrestations , the foreign détentions , the foreign mauvais traitements and the foreign abus infligés at them adeptes of the Falun Gong , whose the behaviour public has been non violent and copy durant their manifestations ininterrompues . 
puisque Act Constitution accorde at them citizens the right to croire or the no not croire , til has the impression , at the Canada , that royal Constitution not is not respectée . 
understandings and how définiront - they clearly what that is series " activité religieuse normale " ? 
deuxièmement , health implementation fell implementation of health nouvelle bill Act them cultes arranged she rétroactive ? 
troisièmement , how Act community international can - she perhaps assurée that foreign persons arrêtées auront right at a procès equitable and public ? 
damned scope acclaimed them two pactes of them Nations Nations , signés by Act China fell 1997 and 1998 , but non still ratifiés , based on treatment réservé at them members of the Falun Gong ? 
these issues , the same that course of other than I cannot ai not the time to raise during unabated courte inquiry , not acclaimed always not trouvé of responses satisfaisantes , but offrent series possibility of pursue our collaboration with Act China at the topic of health freedom religieuse , account tenu of them conventions internationales . 
we prévoyons that he rereads fingertips of other delegations and the other échanges Act them questions liées at Act faith and at Act freedom religieuse and based on application of series policy regarding health religion , pursuant at them conventions internationales . 
we pensons that unabated approach is more prometteuse that series approach who suscite of them affrontements . 
we espérons accueillir at the Canada series delegation of representatives of the Bureau of them Affairs religieuses yeas approfondir our compréhension mutuelle of them relations between the Church and the state and yeas élucider with eux the mystery , at savoir why the Canada not has not need to a office of them Affairs religieuses . 
we prévoyons also accueillir series delegation of researchers of the Académie chinoise of them Science payroll , who , the concert with our academic , arresting approfondir our compréhension mutuelle of health religion streets series society non confessionnelle . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Wilson , at the name of the senator Austin , the debate is adjourned . ) 
Peoples aboriginal 
health Commission Royal Canadian inquiry Act them Peoples aboriginal - Autorisation at the committee of And them recommendations and the appliquer them mémoires and Oceans testimony of health session précédente at the study actuelle 
the Honourable Charlie Watt , pursuant at the avisdu 23 November 1999 , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Peoples aboriginal authorized authorized at make series study and at introduce a report Act them recommendations of health Commission Royal Act them Peoples aboriginal ( document parlementairno 2 / 35 - 508 ) relatively at Act function self autochtone and more particularly , at obtain the standpoint of standpoint of them Peoples aboriginal and the foreign other intéressés Act them questions suivantes : 
2 . them mechanisms nécessaires at the implantation of them nouvelles relations structurelles ; 
3 . them models of self self autochtone nécessaires yeas respond at them needs of them Peoples aboriginal and yeas concorder with them nouvelles relations structurelles ; 
that foreign mémoires reçus and Oceans testimony entendus Act Act question by the committee sénatorial Standing of them Peoples aboriginal durant Act first session of health trente - sixth législature soient déférés at the Comité ; 
that the Comité dépose his report final at the most tardle 16 December 1999 , and that the Comité conserve them powers nécessaires at Act diffusion of them results of his study contenus streets his report final , and what until at the 24 December 1999 ; and 
that the Comité authorized authorized , nonobstant them practices habituelles , at déposer his report auprès of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that ledit report authorized réputé wheel tabled at the Senate . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
Authorized at the committee of permettre Act diffusion of ses deliberations by the foreign afford électroniques 
the Honourable Dan Hays , pursuant at the avisdu 18 November 1999 , moved , at the name of the senator Kirby : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology authorized habilité at permettre the reportage of ses deliberations translated by foreign media of information électroniques , fell dérangeant the least possible ses travaux . 
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin : 
honourable senators , I ai series question Act Act motion No. 11 . Se notional - he ' series Authorized permanente , authorized celle of télédiffuser all levels travaux of the committee according his bon vouloir , or the genus Authorized yeas series end expresse only ? 
the senator Hays : 
senator Corbin , if I ai well including , by unabated motion , the Senate permettrait Act diffusion of toutes them deliberations of the committee by foreign media of information électroniques , and non only them deliberations liées at series study particulière , and rejecting until at Act prorogation . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
Authorized at the committee of engager of the staff 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , at the name of the senator Kirby and pursuant at the avisdu 18 November 1999 , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology authorized habilité at retenir them services of advisors , techniciens , employees of office or other elements nécessaires yeas examiner them bills of Bill , health seams of bills of Bill and Oceans forecasts budgétaires who him acclaimed been déférés . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
agriculture and Forestry 
Authorized at the committee of And the état Present and Oceans perspectives of future of the Agriculture 
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud , pursuant at the notice of the 23 November 1999 , at the name of the senator Fairbairn , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of the Agriculture and the foreign Forestry authorized authorized at And the état Present and Oceans perspectives of future of the Agriculture at the Canada ; and 
that the Comité circulation report at the most later the 29 June 2001 . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
Authorized at the committee of And the état Present and Oceans perspectives of future of them Forestry 
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud , pursuant at the notice of the 23 November 1999 , at the name of the senator Fairbairn , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of the Agriculture and the foreign Forestry authorized authorized at And the état Present and Oceans perspectives of future of them Forestry at the Canada ; and 
that the Comité circulation report at the most later the 29 June 2001 . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
Authorized at the committee of engager of the staff and the run déplacer 
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud , pursuant at the notice of the 23 November 1999 , at the name of the senator Fairbairn , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of the Agriculture and the foreign Forestry authorized habilité at retenir them services of advisors , techniciens , employees of office or other elements nécessaires yeas examiner them bills of Bill , health seams of bills of Bill and Oceans forecasts budgétaires who him acclaimed been déférés ; and 
that the Comité authorized authorized at apply déplacer at travers the Canada and at the abroad at them purposes of reassess examinations . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
Authorized at the committee of permettre Act diffusion of ses deliberations 
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud , pursuant at the notice of the 23 November 1999 , at the name of the senator Fairbairn , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of the Agriculture and the foreign Forestry authorized habilité at permettre the reportage of ses deliberations translated by foreign media of information électroniques , fell dérangeant the least possible ses travaux . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
( the Senate apply ajourne at 14 hours tomorrow . ) 
debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
2e Session , Session Session , 
volume 138 , Issue 12 
the Thursday 25 November 1999 
the Honourable Rose - Marie Losier - Cool , Speaker Pro tempore 
table of them Contents 
the Honourable P . Derek Lewis , Q Q . 
tributes at the opportunity to dapper retirement 
STATEMENTS STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
the Late of Allan Austin Lamport , O . C . 
tributes 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
fisheries 
depository of the Prime report of the committee 
security and services of Intelligence 
depository of the Prime report of the committee Special 
Economy Internal , Budgets and Administration 
depository of the Prime report of the committee 
security of them transport 
depository of the Prime report of the committee Special 
the adjournment 
routine legal and Constitutional 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at sit fell same time that the Senate 
privileges , Rules and procedures 
Authorized at the committee of sit fell same time that the Senate 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
health defence national 
the replacement of the parc of helicopters Sea King 
the replacement of the parc of helicopters Sea King - Possibility possibility of évacuer them troops of them sectors chauds 
the replacement of the parc of helicopters Sea King - Request for copy of the énoncé of them needs 
the industry 
health ligue national of hockey - Possibility possibility of series assistance self yeas them teams 
answers delayed at the foreign questions Oral 
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire 
health crisis Farm at the Manitoba and fell Saskatchewan - Possibility possibility of a program of credit Farm - Ex program of assistance fell case of catastrophe liée at the Income Farm - Ex effectiveness of the program - Comments payments at them demandeurs 
transport travaux of the Senate 
orders OF THE 
bill to Bill of implementation fell vigueur of the Agreement Act Act Station spatiale international civile 
second reading - Adjourned of the debate 
the speech of the Trône 
the Adresse fell response - Motion mettant end at the debate on eighth day to postponement - Continued of the debate 
health Act Act the Parliament of the Canada 
bill to Bill Amend - Second Reading - Adjourned of the debate 
the Union Monetary European 
the report of the committee of them Affairs Foreign - Stands of the debate 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
Authorized at the committee of And them facts nouveaux regarding the euthanasia and the suicide attended 
health situation of them aboriginal and their future 
inquiry - Continued of the debate 
routine legal and Constitutional 
Authorized at the committee of retenir of them services 
Authorized at the committee at diffuser ses deliberations by foreign media of information électroniques 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
Authorized at the committee of sit fell same time that the Senate 
the SENATE 
the Thursday 25 November 1999 
health postponement is ouverte at 14 hours , the Speaker pro tempore étant at the fauteuil . 
prayers . 
the Honourable P . Derek Lewis , Q Q . 
tributes at the opportunity to dapper retirement 
the Honourable B . Alasdair Graham : 
honourable senators , when Winston Churchill has released a recueil of ses sections of newspapers and the magazine Subcommittee on title of Changes grands contemporains of 1938 , he rereads has joint a témoignage Act Act life and the implementation of Robert Baden - Powell that he Tisserant considérer commentator a result them three more grands généraux that he ait connu . 
well heard , Baden - Powell , not fut not that a general respecté at the Breast of them forces Armed , he fonda also the movement Whalers of them scouts . 
Churchill wrote that royal devise of the famous founder , " Sois loan " is perçue by all commentator series invitation at make her duty . 
sois loan at defend the right and health truth , against vents and marées . 
honourable senators , fell examinant them documents consacrés at Act merveilleuse career of the senator Derek Lewis , Q Q . - series life Public consacrée at the service and at the duty - , I ai constaté combien the influence of the baron Baden - Powell the Partnerships marqué . 
Derek has been durant well - Provincial years a result them pillars of them Boy Scouts of the Canada , rose been during a time the Secretary - Government organization national , and he fell is today today a result them vices - chairs honoraires at life . 
the senator Lewis , all levels other honourable senators ' savent , is series human very modest . 
some palatable same the qualifier of Baden - Powell of Newfoundland - Newfoundland . 
health legendary wants that , at the époque where the senator Lewis servait streets them boy scouts , the senator Joan Cook , who is today today dapper voisine of fauteuil , guardian member of them guides of Newfoundland - Newfoundland . 
during these longues years of service dévoué , the senator Lewis has 3.26 ses efforts at Act réalisation of the plein potentiel of them young and at Act creation of citizens responsables - Request them individus at them values axées Act the interest of health community and the their countries - fault never losing of standpoint Act community international . 
health devise of Baden - Powell , " Sois loan " or " Be Prepared " , who correspond at ses initiales and who signifie " sois always loan mentalement and physiquement at make ton duty " has been celle of bearer éminent Senator that I ai always been if proud of power qualifier of exodus ami durant toutes these years . 
the senator has been admitted at the Bar of Newfoundland - Newfoundland fell 1947 , two years only before that unabated Nation , petite but ô combien importante , not décide of apply join at Act Confederation canadienne . 
unabated year where we victories the fiftieth anniversary of unabated union , we disons unfortunately at the bye at the one of ses son and gentlemen them more remarquables , a man who has overburdened everything the talent of a Inuvialuit chaleureux , résistant and dynamic , the Inuvialuit of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , at the service of health life policy of what country . 
Bouctouche deSt. John' Maclean and lawyer respecté , the senator Lewis has apporté his sense of the humour well connu and his habileté at negotiate and at make the foreign compromise at the Senate to the Canada lors of dapper appointment fell March 1978 . 
when I ai rencontré the senator Lewis yeas Act first once thanks at Act policy ? series way courante of make knowledge yeas number of between us - Derek Partnerships been at Newfoundland - Newfoundland steering or advisor Main of nombreuses campaigns électorales fédérales . 
the dedication and health fiabilité of the senator Lewis are well connus streets bearer place . 
he has been member of virtually all levels committees which acclaimed been constitués by the Senate and guardian réputé yeas Act way infaillible that he Partnerships of travailler with them other members yeas arriver at a consensus Act to them measures legislatures often complex . 
health list is attest and impressionnante , and he is important to fell make état . 
during three years , between 1984 and 1986 , he has chaired the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional , whose he is member without discontinuance since 1979 . 
he has done part of the committee Standing of the rules and the Day procedure or , commentator til the appelle since 1991 , the Government committee sénatorial Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure , during series period at somewhat close also attest , authorized a little more of two decades . 
the senator Lewis has done bénéficier of his very grandfather savoir policy on committee Standing of health regulators and the foreign other textes réglementaires . 
he has chaired the committee Joint Standing of sober of health regulators during Act more grande part of health présente decade . 
he has often fact part of the committee Joint of them impressions of the Parliament and the Government committee Joint Special of health reform of the Senate , who has been formé at the beginning of them years 80 . 
bye unabated list already fort attest and remarkable complements apply add Act participation of the senator Lewis at them travaux of the committee Joint Special Act the Entente BNA of 1987 and at the committee Special of the bill to Bill C - 110 ( changes Constitutional ) the 1994 at 1996 . 
he not there has therefore not instead of apply surprendre that what joyeux Newfoundland - Neuvien at the spirit alerte and at the songs spontané ait acquis series of them meilleures réputations who soient Incidence toutes them persons rose never served at Act House . 
he is renommé yeas Act generosity with laquelle he consacre his time , his soul and his energy at the service of dapper province and the Hon. country . 
fell quality of Senator , he has always understood that the Senate to the Canada , commentator I the répète without cesse , is the instead of work of the government , a atelier at the Breast duquel he remembered is gagné the respect and the admiration of all of them two sides of health House . 
yeas Derek Lewis , who has done activist of volunteerism streets the movement scout at the country , health voie of the success apply is always sideshow résumée at make her duty , at pagayer , commentator the has already said Baden - Powell , with his heart and dapper tête and at perhaps loan , commentator the senator Lewis : has always been , at defend fidèlement the right and health truth , breaching that authorized the context . 
right and truth . 
duty and honour . 
justice and fairness . 
these mots décrivent of way fort pertinente our colleague who we quitte . 
he convient of souligner also the soutien of the wife of the senator Lewis , the étonnante Grace , who is the foreign guardian today today streets Act gallery of them visitors . 
we analyzed nombreux streets unabated enceinte at wheel very long bénéficié of their friendship chaleureuse and the their hospitalité généreuse . 
all our vows them accompagnent streets their nouvelles businesses . 
the Honourable C . William Doody : 
honourable senators , I voudrais at mon tour add condolences bons vows at ceux exprimés by condolences colleagues at the opportunity to the departure at Act retirement of our ami Derek Lewis . 
i organize the senator Lewis since 20 years and even before , at the époque where we étions àSt. John' Maclean . 
what is a man who fate véritablement of the ordinaire . 
i puis sincèrement affirmer that , during toutes these years , he not me has never been rose to hear Act moindre critique or the moindre reproche at his encontre . 
confirms is the autant more remarkable that he has exercé the right with success during blunt unabated period . 
but the most remarkable still , what is that , outre dapper practice of the right with the success that the snakes knows , he has actively milité yeas the Party Liberal of the Canada , what that he continues to elsewhere at what day . 
i cannot me souviens not to series campaign électorale , fédérale or provinciale , at laquelle the senator Derek not ait not participated actively . 
streets Act victory or health défaite , Derek guardian always a gentilhomme , poli , well élevé , well overburdened and méticuleux at the extrême . 
fell fact , I ai already heard say àSt. John' Maclean that the moment the most embarrassant streets Act life of Derek , what is when he remembered is done prendre a day with Act cravate défaite . 
little regardless the opportunity , that he gagne or that he perde , toutes ses activities étaient always marquées by series belle touche of humour gentil and sardonique who , according moi , guardian particulière at Derek Lewis . 
bye the Senate , I think that til apply rappellera mostly of him yeas his work at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional . 
the senator Graham has very well énuméré , at fair title , the large éventail of activity auxquelles Derek has participated streets unabated enceinte . 
he has effectué a job invaluable at the committee of them Affairs legal , and dapper grande knowledge of the right analyzed that his approach everything at fact practice and réfléchie at the hook of them travaux of the committee and Oceans tasks that til him confiait uncovered difficiles at substitute . 
the assiduité of the senator Lewis streets unabated enceinte is , well heard , series something whose we pouvons all perhaps fiers and that we devrions tenter of imiter . 
til not fell parle not at ma knowledge streets the book the Claire Hoy , but I cannot me attends not at what that what kind of something attire much the attention of blunt way . 
i ai sat with Derek at the committee sénatorial Standing of health Economy Internal , the foreign Budgets and the Government administration during long and , là still , his work at the committee not arranged not oublié , mostly by your serviteur . 
the work of Derek at Newfoundland - Newfoundland streets dapper profession has been marqué by the same dedication and souci of the detail . 
dapper career fell activist that lawyer has been reconnue during long by ses pairs . 
he has been advisor to the barreau of health Law Society of Newfoundland - 1962 at 1978 . 
he is became chairman of health Law Foundation of Newfoundland fell 1979 . 
honourable senators , Derek Lewis exerce the right streets Act province of Newfoundland - Newfoundland since 1947 . 
what guardian little after the épisode of health Confederation whose the senator Graham has spoke . 
i essaie still the determine whether Derek guardian fell favour of health Confederation or not . 
he refuses to the say . 
sometimes , he said that he is a Quebecer at contrecoeur . 
he the fact at the past , but I ignore exactly what that confirms wants say . 
i essaie of découvrir at the fair apply he guardian yeas or against , car , commentator them honourable senators apply fell rappellent , the vote guardian very serré and he rereads has can - perhaps the foreign motifs yeas procéder at a nouveau dépouillement . 
Derek Lewis has played a role active streets them Affairs - our province and the our city . 
his work auprès of them Boy Scouts of the Canada has been mentioned . 
he is very recognized at Newfoundland - Newfoundland yeas confirms and yeas his work streets Act Game Fish Protection Society of our province and streets various other agencies volunteers who are very importants yeas the Evolution ordonnée of health society at Newfoundland - Newfoundland . 
fell effect , Derek has played a role active streets almost everything . 
he has generously rose his time each once that til the him has asked and we him fell impotent all reconnaissants . 
i cannot entrerai not streets them details of the work of the senator Lewis yeas the Party Liberal , car the senator Graham is much better placé that moi yeas the make . 
the elsewhere , confirms not semblerait not also flatteur venant of moi . 
i souhaite at Derek and at Grace of heureuses years of retirement . 
i inclus at confirms the souhait that he particulars congé of the Party Liberal commentator of the Senate , and rejecting yeas of them reasons évidentes . 
merci , Derek . 
the Honourable Joan Cook : 
honourable senators , at ceux of between us who aspirent at Act life Public fell croyant that he is possible for apporter a change who garantira series meilleure quality of life at all , he suffit of regarder mon colleague and ami , the senator Derek Lewis . 
he possède series strength quiet , a uniqueness extraordinary and series intellect hors of the commun . 
commentator Derek not lack aucune opportunity to me the remind , health brevity is the soul of the intellect ; I dirai therefore simply that mon association with dapper wife and him couvre quelque30 years political agitées . 
transport challenges acclaimed been nombreux and variés and we awakened connu of them hauts and the foreign bas . 
if I écrivais a book at what topic , I dispel garantir at the senator Doody that what serait a best - seller . 
during unabated period , Derek guardian the trésorier dd of the Party Liberal . 
transport candidates and Oceans workers of campaign électorale who demandaient of the money croyaient all that with suffisamment of money , they palatable remporter Act victory . 
i know that he has series patience of ange because that til the has very often overburdened at the épreuve streets what sense . 
each once that we étions défaits , Grace guardian always là , prête at us réconforter and at us make forget our peine fell we gavant of biscuits at the gingembre . 
everyone of thanking , he Tisserant that til not pouvait not make the impossible and ensuite , that what not guardian not the money which assurait Act victory and that the snakes gagnait when business constituents specialist confidence fell we . 
also , I query reprendre these paroles immortelles that has prononcées gun Don Jamieson fell parlant of the Heritage of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , because that thin you décrivent if well : 
Derek and Grace , I you souhaite of not never changer and the wheel still during long the vent streets them voiles . 
the Honourable Ethel Cochrane : 
honourable senators , I am désolée of see the senator Lewis we quitter . 
i know that we awakened always occupé of them seats opposés at the Senate , but , venant all sides of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , we awakened often been neighbours of seat streets the avion and we awakened also often lived together to them delays and the foreign changes to itinéraire . 
i cannot connaissais not the senator Lewis before the arriver at the Senate . 
he venait of health Coast is the Newfoundland - Newfoundland and moi of health Coast west , at more of 1 40,000 kilometres of distance . 
the senator Lewis me has much aidée at traverser these premiers months . 
he me has served on guide during unabated period and he has continué at the incorrigible of them years of me give the sages advice , and foremost confirms everything at fact gratuitement . 
i cannot ai never seen the senator Lewis déprimé . 
breaching that authorized the time at the outside or telecommunications concerns political at the intérieur , til pouvait always compter Act Derek Lewis yeas we remonter the morale . 
he has a talent remarkable yeas apply remind the foreign blagues and yeas them Cartier at the bon moment . 
til not knows never at whereupon apply wait with him and he can Cartier them blagues them more drôles without even esquisser a smile . 
despite the spirit and the humour whose he faisait Evidence auprès of ses friends , Derek Lewis guardian always very calme fell public . 
he has always préservé jalousement dapper life privacy and not has never cherché at make grandfather éclat of his work and the dapper contribution . 
he has admirablement well succeeded streets dapper life Public , fell activist that Solicitor of funds yeas the grandfather Party Liberal , member of the executive attain of his party and collaborateur fidèle and sérieux at them travaux of the Senate . 
during the nombreuses years , he has served his party , business residents of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the Government Labrador analyzed that the Parliament of way effective and effacée , without never chercher at allegiances fell vedette ses propres accomplishments . 
before the perhaps appointed at the Senate , Derek Lewis guardian a éminent lawyer who pratiquait àSt. John' Maclean . 
he guardian énormément respecté and admiré streets his milieu . 
bye the beginning of dapper career , he remembered is associé at Finton Aylward and at John Crosbie . 
what is therefore a Liberal convaincu who faces is associé at the very Conservative Finton Aylward , became by Act subsequently Justice at Newfoundland - Newfoundland and at the Labrador , and at a jeune John Crosbie , who has connu series brillante career fell activist that Minister at the Breast of a government Conservative federal and who is today today Chancellor at the University Memorial . 
who knows what that Derek Lewis aurait accompli apply he Partnerships seen clear during dapper jeunesse and Partnerships changed the allégeance policy ? 
i am course that ses colleagues on unabated study apply joignent at us yeas adresser their meilleurs vows at Derek . 
Derek and his wife , Grace , possèdent series maison Act the Lake Hogans , àSt. John' Maclean . 
i know that , during the summer , they aiment apply baigner all levels matins streets what Lake . 
i hope that they continueront of profiter of the Lake Hogans and the toutes them other merveilles of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the Government Labrador during the longues years . 
dieu you bénisse , Derek . 
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn : 
honourable senators , what is series journée triste yeas the Senate that celle where we devons say adieu at a friend commentator the senator Derek Lewis , who has énormément contributed at them travaux of unabated assemblée during more of 20 years . 
he remembered is taillé series place spéciale at the Senate , activist by the work that he has accompli that by Hon. influence Act to them persons commentator moi - even , the senator Cochrane and activist of other , who acclaimed sollicité ses advice and his appui streets their efforts yeas better understanding and make évoluer our role fell unabated enceinte . 
transport Newfoundland - Neuviens , and more particularly the senator Lewis , apportent at the Parliament and fell everything case at the Senate a standpoint of standpoint and series attitude well différents of ceux of them other provinces , series sorte of fraîcheur Shipping who tient at their history , celle of health dernière province at apply perhaps jointe at Act Confederation , what that she has done the 31 March 1949 , at midnight less ten . 
we awakened much learned of our colleagues on Newfoundland - Newfoundland . 
we them awakened écoutés discuss the foreign benefits and the foreign inconvénients of their nouvelle nationalité . 
i ai certainly bénéficié of the intensité of the patriotisme that they acclaimed apporté at the Canada without abandonner series once the Government emotion and the Day pride who appartient at their foyer insulaire . 
Derek Lewis not is not a grandfather parleur ; what is a man of Action . 
he tuned and he évalue . 
when he finit by prendre Act parole , that what authorized at the Senate or at them very nombreux committees where he has sat , he the fact with soin , wisdom and brevity . 
i ai also noticed at the incorrigible of them years that he not lâche not . 
he is commentator a terrier with a os , run he estimated that a witness or a friend hiding something something or esquive series question . 
i the ai commitments durant of them years yeas model at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional . 
when the grands and difficiles problems acclaimed surgi at the Senate streets the file constitutional of them changes at apporter at the system scolaire of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , he me has rose to very précieux advice . 
the senator Lewis is a jurist who has been décrit by nul another that his compatriote earth - neuvien , John Crosbie , commentator " a man quiet , but a grandfather spirit legal " . 
he not torn not non more at fell make Act démonstration . 
he not guardian guère more than a novice at the Senate that he essayait of changer our institution fell activist that member of the committee Joint Special of health reform of the Senate , Subcommittee Act Ruling - our Speaker Present , the senator Molgat , fell 1983 . 
the senator Lewis has also métamorphosé the committee Joint of the examination of health regulators , at them travaux auparavant arides and even incompréhensibles of the notice of some , fell series form of art , causant of health consternation streets some circles chez of them people who faces étaient endormis streets series fausse security fell croyant that person cannot there prêtait really Act moindre attention . 
commentator of other senator acclaimed fact remarquer , the senator Lewis has been member of almost all levels committees importants of the Senate ; everything dernièrement , he guardian the one of them personnagesclés of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign . 
however , fell dépit of dapper grande experience and the Hon. formidable sense of ses responsibilities at the Senate , what is the dapper bonté , the dapper generosity , the Hon. sense aigu of health justice and the dapper compassion loyalty ceux who are less fortunés that we whose I me souviendrai when I penserai at mon friendship with the senator Lewis . 
well that he ait saisi with enthusiasm the opportunity to serve the public , he not has never oublié of where he venait not more than them needs and health strength of them residents of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , dapper province well - aimée , who him voue series grande admiration . 
the elsewhere , at the Breast of mon own party , the Party Liberal , til not paving not àSt. John' Maclean without appeler Derek . 
damned that authorized dapper charge of work , or the time , he is always là yeas you . 
i ai brossé a portrait rather angélique of mon cher colleague , but I ferai also remarquer that he has a sense of the humour endiablé , that what is a grandfather storyteller , and that he not dédaigne not series good rasade of rhum . 
he has said that royal human that dapper retirement réjouissait the most is his wife Grace , who the has always supported without défaillance , even when he remembered is lancé streets series nouvelle career which him has done quitter the island regularly , week after week , during Senators two dernières decades . 
confirms fell said term impact them links which foreign unissent . 
i their souhaite at all sides of nombreuses years of bonheur together . 
Derek not has not yet decided at quels challenges he allait now apply attaquer , but , quels that they soient , I the encourage at not not abandonner the tricot . 
honourable senators , the senator Lewis is born at Newfoundland - Newfoundland fell 1924 . 
after ses studies of right at the University Memorial , àSt. John' Maclean , he is admitted at the barreau of unabated province fell 1947 . 
he exerce the right àSt. John' Maclean at the cabinet Lewis , Day , Cook Mail Sheppard . 
fell 1961 , he wife Grace Knight . 
fell 1964 , he is appointed council of health reine ; he is advisor to the Bar of Newfoundland - Newfoundland - 1962 at 1978 . 
he is appointed at the Senate fell 1978 . 
the senator Lewis is a lawyer of health practice privacy . 
what fact has orienté and marqué dapper life . 
since dapper venue at the Senate , he fut during the foreign years a member fort active of the committee of them Affairs legal and Constitutional , where his excellente reputation not is more at make . 
the senator Lewis has chaired the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional , the 1984 at 1986 , has coprésidé the committee Joint of the examination of health regulators , the 1994 at 1997 , and has been member of what committee during the nombreuses years . 
he has also sat at a number impressionnant of other committees : the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure , the Comité of selection , the committee Joint Special Act Act reform of the Senate , the 1980 at 1983 , and the committee Joint Special of the Senate and the Day House of them Commons Act the Entente constitutionelle of 1987 , fell 1987 and fell 1988 , between other . 
til has said that dapper grande contribution to the Senate , what are ses travaux yeas improve the foreign measures legislatures and ses travaux fell committee . 
the senator Lewis is a man of Committee and a grandfather expert fell matière of laws . 
i tiens at the thank sincèrement . 
the Honourable Lorna Milne : 
honourable senators , permettez - moi of partager with you few other stories at the topic of the Honourable Senator Derek Lewis , at commencer by the moment where we ourselves impotent liés of friendship , I believe . 
til apply serait cru streets a conte of Edgar Allan Poe : " Par series focuses monotone , where I broyais of the noir ... " 
well course , the hour not guardian not everyone at fact also tardive , but I étais Gotcha streets mon office , at Act mezzanine of the Senate , approximately four months after wheel been nommée at unabated House , and I commençais at fell wheel a little marre . 
what night - là , til has frappé doucement at Act door of mon office . 
what guardian them senators Lewis and Bonnell . 
Derek has déclaré : " We Pension you find still here and we ourselves demandions apply he you plairait of us accompagner fell China . " 
he not Partnerships virtually not fini dapper phrase that I avais the paletot Act the dos and that I franchissais Act door . 
since what day , Ross and moi impotent devenus of them friends sincères , I believe , the Derek and the Day " ravissante Grace " . 
fell fact , we regrettons of health see too little since few years , because that she is very dynamic . 
i ai apprécié all levels moments that we awakened passés together . 
he guardian always présent and usually at the hour . 
he restait until at Act blunt end of each postponement . 
each once that the interrogation of a client commençait at languir , he posait series question who ranimait Act discussion and who ouvrait series perspective totalement nouvelle Act the bill to Bill at the study or perhaps - perhaps even a dénouement imprévu . 
everyone chairman of Committee knows at breaching standpoint he is important that royal good motion authorized présentée at the bon moment , and til pouvait always compter Act Derek yeas confirms . 
his sense of the at - propos has always been absolument brillant and his opinion Act them deliberations of the committee , perfectly fiable , car , commentator of other senator acclaimed already said , his savoir of légiste is impeccable . 
commentator all levels Newfoundland - Neuviens of more of 50 years , Derek has overburdened of the time at devenir Quebecer . 
fell effect , he the is became at his corps défendant . 
i believe that he has voted at the least series once against the entrée of Newfoundland - Newfoundland streets Act Confederation . 
fell fact , he trouvait that what guardian series very mauvaise idea . 
series once that the Canada is entré at Newfoundland - Newfoundland , however , he remembered is intéressé at Act policy canadienne with enthusiasm - with sometimes a little too of enthusiasm , perhaps - perhaps . 
Derek , I hope that you écrivez a book . 
no laissez not confirms at the senator Cook ! 
racontez them frasques at the world , health once where you prostituted sorti them ordures at the nez of them troops of your former associé streets your study of lawyers and what that you prostituted already overburdened streets the coffre - fort of the office . 
well course , confirms remonte at the time détestable where Derek guardian associé with a certain John Crosbie , who has already been a Liberal famous or malfamé of the another place . 
i me hasten of add that Derek is today today much more convenable , at what that he said , the Government less . 
Derek , cher ami , the number of them persons who acclaimed said here today today that thin allaient you regretter fell said term impact on kind of human that you êtes . 
i know that you me manquerez terriblement . 
you advice sûrs , your assistance fiable and your wonderful and original sense of the humour submariners me manquer . 
what who me manquera mostly , I believe , what is the EI that a exodus ami fréquente all levels days these murs . 
i you promets that we resterons fell communication and that we demeurerons friends , even at distance . 
the Honourable Consiglio Di Nino : 
honourable senators , I tiens at parler of a another aspect of health contribution to the senator Lewis at the Canada and at them Canadians that you not connaissez can - perhaps not yeas Act plupart . 
you prostituted can - perhaps noticed that , when we ourselves rencontrons , we ourselves donnons Act main gauche rather than Act droite . 
what not is not the signe of series society secrète , but gerrymandering of series magnificent society who has much fact at the Canada . 
the senator Lewis is since long a member dévoué and zélé of the movement scout , series passion that we partageons . 
what movement has underlined dapper contribution to well - Provincial façons , notamment fell the nommant recently vice - chairman Honorary of the body attain , a honour which me has also been dévolu . 
puissiez - you vivre still the nombreuses years of bonheur . 
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs : 
honourable senators , 
these mots , writings by Rudyard Kipling , not acclaimed of blunt évidence not been writings fell pensant at Derek Lewis , but he capitalists apply agir of something a commentator Derek Lewis . 
honourable senators , at the Senate , we utilisons Act formula " senators colleagues " fell we adressant them uns at them other , but human here not is more hon. that Derek Lewis . 
Derek Lewis guardian , and is always , a man very gentil . 
he is nettement convaincu that ses réussites , and he fell has connu several , are attribuables sideshow at his work and at ses efforts . 
the senator Lewis not has never cru necessary to utiliser them other yeas parvenir at ses purposes personnelles . 
til not aurait never avoided accuser Derek of agir at the détriment of something a streets the espoir of avancer him ? same , car Derek croyait at the contrary that he enrichirait dapper own life fell aidant them other . 
even if Derek has succeeded commentator lawyer and Parliamentary , I the takers mostly commentator a man généreux , with a sense of the humour raffiné , who has always been là yeas me appuyer , at dapper manner discrète , but claire . 
when I ai chaired the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional , with the senator Nolin at condolences sides commentator vice - chairman , the senator Lewis guardian the another member of the committee steering . 
when I ai been Leader Deputy of the government at the Senate , I savais that he guardian always là , loan at help discrètement but résolument . 
Derek and Grace acclaimed gracieusement received all levels members of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional at Hogans Pond , Newfoundland - Newfoundland , when we ourselves impotent rendus streets unabated province yeas there And Act question of the system scolaire . 
commentator Derek the savait very well , I avais few reserves at the topic of unabated Modified . 
i dois avouer that I craignais well more of contrarier Derek that the contrarier the government . 
Derek paving me manquer at bearer place . 
transport too little fréquentes visites of Grace at Ottawa submariners also me manquer . 
i their souhaite of nombreuses years of series retirement heureuse , together , streets their province adorée , notamment at Hogans Pond . 
i hope that we resterons fell contact because that foreign bons friends are rare and that they are them meilleurs friends of all ceux who them familiar . 
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein : 
honourable senators , at the opportunity to dapper retirement , we rendons today today tribute at our ami Derek Lewis , the man modest and quiet of Newfoundland - Newfoundland who has done series attest and famous career at the Senate . 
no is - what not series opportunity everything indiquée yeas prendre the time to us remind the balance délicat that the Senate procure streets our lives Public analyzed that foreign principles discrets , almost invisibles , who rendent our work here important and dignified of faith ? 
when I am venu at Ottawa yeas Act first once fell 1966 , yeas travailler commentator Opposition of cabinet of a minister , til me has explained that he guardian essentiel that I me renseigne Act the work of the Senate . 
i savais very little of things Act Act way whose the Senate fonctionnait . 
by series journée ensoleillée of July , I ai asked a rendez - you , by the entremise of Torrance Wiley , with a vieil ami who guardian Robbie Deputy executive of the Honourable John Connolly , the catalyst Leader of the government at the Senate . 
til me has immediately guest at the rencontrer . 
i am allé streets his magnificent office of coin lambrissé and well éclairé situé fell opposite of the Senate , the Government another side of the hall , office that occupies now the Present Leader of the government at the Senate . 
nearly of two decades earlier later , when I ai strokes Act chance to perhaps appointed Senate , a vieil ami , the senator Godfrey , the father of John Godfrey , at the another place , run is immediately overburdened fell report with moi . 
the senator Godfrey me has 3.25 the book red of the rules of the Senate and he me has said rejecting : " Respectez the rules and the Senate you respectera . " 
little after , the Scotians - Brunswickois at the franc - parler , the senator McElman , me has said that the work of them committees , what guardian the soul of the Senate . 
he me has reminded that , even if health plupart of between us avions series allégeance loyalty a party , we pouvions remodeler series mauvaise policy self discrètement , without tambour anguishes trompette , by the biais of them deliberations of them committees sénatoriaux . 
he me has exhorté at travailler fort at the Breast of them committees . 
puis I ai rencontré the senator Ian Sinclair who , at the époque , venait everything fair to perhaps appointed at the Senate . 
auparavant , he occupait , with brio , business duties of steering General of the Quebecer Pacific , series of them more grandes companies of the Canada , and he guardian series legendary vivante streets them circles of them Affairs . 
the senator Sinclair has said that his experience streets them Affairs him Partnerships learned that his meilleur work - and , partant , the meilleur work done at the Senate ? is gerrymandering who is réalisé by foreign senators eux - mêmes . 
he has said that a bon work at the Senate and streets them committees apporterait dapper own récompense Subcommittee form of satisfaction personnelle . 
finally , the senator MacEachen of health Nova Scotia Nova Scotia a former leader of the government at the Senate ? me has reminded at maintes occasions , and has reminded at all levels senators ' what side - ci , that afin of maintain our own credibility and celle of the Senate , we devions garder our distances with the another place at the bout of the corridor analyzed that the another place to the another side of health street . 
transport échos of ses advice apply are done hear at the Senate not more later than yesterday , when the senator Murray has soulevé Act question of the study préalable . 
the senator MacEachen apply is firmly opposé at the study préalable of them initiatives ministérielles , car she Partnerships yeas effect indésirable of reduce Act credibility of the Senate fell activist that House of reflection , fell activist that House indépendante of the another place , the Government another place to the another side of health street , fell activist that House indépendante at our propres yeux and at ceux of the public at the service duquel we analyzed . 
by conséquent , at mon sense , honourable senators , he tangibly adhere at the Senate a délicat balance between them principles . 
health flame of the power to the another place is always attirante , but if we ourselves fell approchons too , our work and the Senate him ? same risquent of Welfare quickly réduits fell cendres . 
what are them premiers principles that I ai glanés at the topic of the Senate . 
transport principles and health practice repositories aller of pair . 
everyone confirms , honourable senators , fell guise of preamble at the tribute that I veux tribute at mon bon ami Derek Lewis , who we quitte yeas series retirement well méritée . 
bye condolences yeux , Derek has incarné all these principles . 
he respectait our institution . 
he has acquis series knowledge encyclopaedic of them rules of the Senate and respecté ses usages . 
streets them travaux of them committees , he guardian the artisan by excellence . 
Derek guardian calme , méticuleux , compétent , witty and réfléchi . 
he is always nary at distance respectueuse of the power . 
fell a word , Derek guardian the senator by excellence and the lawyer by excellence . 
fell what sense , he is a representative of series espèce of more fell more rare at the Senate . 
yeas toutes these reasons and yeas dapper company which we manquera , his departure laissera a grandfather vacuum at the Senate . 
Derek , you êtes at the bout of your labeur . 
your work is accompli . 
you and Grace méritez widely of vivre series heureuse retirement fell good health . 
commentator til said streets Act tradition juive : " Puissiez - you vivre fell good health until at 120 years . " 
dieu you bénisse . 
the Honourable Landon Pearson : 
honourable senators , when I me am jointe at the Senate yeas Act first once , the visage of Derek Lewis has been the one of them everything premiers at apply dégager of health foule of them visages inconnus auxquels I ai owed make opposite all levels days streets unabated enceinte . 
he guardian amical , but réservé . 
i me fiais Act his mood yeas savoir what who importait or non streets unabated enceinte . 
i attache much of importance at them five years that I ai partagées with Derek streets unabated enceinte and at Act knowledge that he me has transmise streets his style inimitable . 
i chéris also the fact that he me has said regularly that he me respectait fell activist that colleague and fell activist that wife . 
Derek Lewis paving much we manquer and I me joins at all levels honourable senators here today today yeas him souhaiter , analyzed that at Grace , good luck . 
that their lives after the Senate authorized much more rich and more divertissante that they not puissent the conceive now . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I am pleased to tribute tribute with condolences colleagues at the senator Derek Lewis . 
i ai rencontré the senator Lewis yeas Act first once here non not fell activist that Senator , but fell activist that son of Senator . 
the senator Lewis guardian a ami proche of mon father , who siégeait at the Senate at the époque . 
til me the has presented commentator series human very spéciale . 
a result them grands plaisirs of ma career has been the power compter moi also Act the friendship of the senator Lewis . 
til we took already said that the senator Lewis guardian a man remarkable , a senator , a lawyer , a advisor to Majesty Majesty versé fell right and , perhaps - perhaps more important still , a Volunteer streets dapper collectivité . 
i the brevity yeas confirms and I the fell thank . 
the senator Lewis has représenté what that he rereads has the meilleur at the Senate by dapper dignity sereine , dapper grande jurisdiction and his work acharné . 
he knows what who is necessary yeas make fonctionner our institution . 
he not there has not that the senator Lewis who prend dapper retirement today today however . 
he tangibly also penser at Act contribution to Grace . 
i Act thank the wheel toléré them nombreuses absences of Derek . 
we remercions also the adjointe of term date of the senator Lewis , Sallie . 
senator Lewis , profitez of your retirement . 
you prostituted worked durum . 
you manquerez at the Senate . 
i you souhaite series retirement attest and heureuse . 
we espérons you see often with Grace . 
the way sereine , ferme and effective , you prostituted served your province and your country with distinction . 
you allez much we manquer . 
the Honourable EdwardM. Lawson : 
honourable senators , well - Provincial things acclaimed been dites at the topic of health career exceptionnelle and the foreign accomplishments of the senator Lewis , but yeas them people of the West , he is always surprising of rencontrer something a doué of a bel spirit and the one wonderful sense of the humour commentator the senator Lewis . 
we analyzed all sides here since fort long , but at our arrival , he rereads Partnerships a vieux Senator who we Partnerships devancés since belle lurette . 
what vieux Senator Tisserant often that at the moment of mourir , he Partnerships the intent of everyone emporter with him , and he guardian sérieux . 
he venait of unabated contrée . 
he has 3.25 at composite series enveloppe contenant cent 40,000 Expenditures fell cash and their has said that , when he mourrait , he voulait that composite of eux dépose the enveloppe streets Act boîte contenant ses restes . 
the vieux Senator is death . 
transport three men acclaimed fidèlement suivi Act consigne and acclaimed tabled their enveloppe streets the cercueil . 
based on chemin of the Return , the doctor has said that he Partnerships a aveu at make . 
transport needs of the hospital étaient if criants , mostly since that the government Partnerships sabré streets them Estimates , that he Partnerships puisé 25 40,000 Expenditures streets the enveloppe . 
the pasteur répondit that wouldn also Partnerships a aveu at make . 
transport needs of his church étaient if criants that he Partnerships gardé 40 40,000 Expenditures . 
the senator Lewis their said that they devraient wheel shame of wheel manqué of health sorte at their promise solemn and he them assura that he Partnerships commitments the soin of déposer streets the cercueil his enveloppe contenant a chèque staff at the amount of 100 40,000 Expenditures . 
quels that soient them problems that you apportez streets unabated enceinte , when well same you porteriez the poids of the world Act vos épaules , when you rencontrez the senator Lewis , strength you is the smile . 
he répand Act joie autour of him with his calme , his bel spirit and his wonderful sense of the humour . 
senator Lewis , you we manquerez ! 
the Honourable Léonce Mercier : 
honourable senators , he me fact plaisir of tribute tribute today today at the senator Derek Lewis , who faces is distingué by Hon. sense of health justice and his mind of diplomatie . 
i ai grandement apprécié them qualities of what Newfoundland - Neuvien . 
the senator Lewis has exercé ses duties with honesty and jurisdiction . 
his intellect and his sense of the humour acclaimed contributed at apporter a balance between ses colleagues senators . 
voilà series habileté who is rare ! 
the senator Lewis incarne the dicton who said : " Soyez honnête loyalty you - even " , what is a man whose health parole is the gold , a man fiable auquel til can make confidence . 
i hope that all levels Newfoundland - Neuviens are pareils car the senator Lewis has établi series norme who arranged difficult at appliquer . 
senator Lewis , your province and your country are fiers of vos services . 
i you adresse all condolences vows . 
the Honourable P . Derek Lewis : 
honourable senators , I thank them senators yeas their tributes . 
even if what guardian fell grande part exagéré , I cannot contesterai nothing , mostly not them aimables propos referendums at mon regard . 
i laisserai what soin at the other . 
i ai strokes the privilege of Welfare member of unabated House during a little more of 21 years . 
i ai much apprécié of wheel strokes Act possibility of me associer at the foreign colleagues also various , informés and accomplis , and I fell am honoré . 
durant them years that I ai passées here , I me am fact several friends proches whose I chérirai always the friendship . 
i ai commitments plaisir at travailler with them senators ' Affairs two sides of health House . 
mon odyssey regret , what is that foreign circumstances me aient obligé unabated dernière year - restreindre something little condolences activities and the no yielding avoided therefore better make knowledge with them senators nommés recently at the Senate . 
he fut series époque where I cannot me souciais anguishes of the world of health policy anguishes of ses acteurs . 
however , when I me there am intéressé of close fell me impliquant personally , I ai vite including all ceux who comptent Act bearer univers and learned at sympathiser with eux . 
bye the departure , what is Act curiosité who me has poussé at prendre share at Act life policy . 
commentator some of between you the savent , series once that til apply implique streets a bill , til apply trouve engagé streets a engrenage who tourne of more fell more vite , and til finit by devenir accroché . 
certaines activities parliamentarians étaient if imprévisibles that I me sentais sometimes lost . 
he conviendrait , at mon notice , the allegiances fell place a program of orientation at the intent of them senators nouvellement nommés , non only yeas explain Act procedure , but also yeas them inform the foreign différents services and facilities overburdened at their provision . 
streets well - Provincial case , I cannot ai discovered these things that after wheel posé Act question at the foreign colleagues , commentator the has done the senator Cook . 
what is really pity , puisque unabated information is disposable , at Act condition of savoir where Act chercher . 
bye the incorrigible of them years , much of nouveaux senators acclaimed exprimé them mêmes concerns . 
i believe savoir that , since few years , the foreign measures acclaimed been prises yeas improve them things . 
he is assurément important that foreign nouveaux senators apply familiarisent blocks that possible with the rules of the Senate . 
i ai participated during the nombreuses years at them travaux of différents committees and I ai much apprécié the experience , well that what fut sometimes difficult . 
i ai been favorablement impressionné by Act quality and the exhaustivité of them examinations auxquels we ourselves livrions . 
commentator of other before moi the acclaimed fact observer , the work fell committee is the genus of them activities them more importantes of the Senate . 
i think notamment at two committees fell particular . 
a result them premiers committees auxquels I ai participated has been the committee Joint of the examination of health regulators . 
he remembered appelait différemment at the époque . 
travailler with the staff and Oceans representatives of the committee guardian a plaisir . 
they accomplissent if well the work ennuyeux who BNA at And and at analyser of them regulations and the Day procedure . 
bye the Breast of what committee , I ai évolué Subcommittee various coprésidents whose , the Government side of the Senate , business Veterans senators Lafond , Forsey , Godfrey and Nurgitz , analyzed that the senator Normand . 
our patron fell fiscal is the senator Hervieux - Payette . 
i ai also coprésidé during a certain time what committee . 
i ai also been during very long member of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional , who has always been a result them committees them more occupés of the Senate . 
i ai strokes the plaisir of côtoyer of them chairmen commentator them Veterans senators Stanbury , Flynn and Nurgitz , analyzed that foreign senators Beaudoin , Carstairs and Milne . 
the work of what committee guardian very interesting and important . 
the leadership exercé by foreign persons rose occupé Act Ruling has énormément contributed at them accomplishments of the committee . 
i aborderai now briefly Act question of health reform of the Senate which , since the époque same of dapper creation , done the objet of much of discussions and the controverses . 
i constate that little after ma appointment here , health issue of series reform visant at make the Government Senate a body elected has the nouveau surgi . 
fell 1980 , a committee Joint of them two Houses of the Parliament has been établi afin of And of them façons whose the Senate could perhaps réformé fell standpoint of strengthen his role of representative of them people of toutes them regions . 
i ai been appointed at what committee , who guardian coprésidé by the Honourable Senator Molgat and the Honourable Paul Cosgrove . 
after wheel tenu of nombreuses meetings streets various regions of the country and wheel heard much of testimony , the présentations and the discussions , the committee is arrivé at Act conclusion and has done report at them two Houses that the Senate should perhaps elected by foreign people and he has formulé of them suggestions Act Act way of apply there prendre . 
the report has been tabled fell 1984 . 
commentator the savent them honourable senators , nothing not has changed since what time . 
i recommends at them senators ' lire the report . 
you constaterez that the committee not apply is penché that Act Act question of savoir if the Senate should perhaps constitué of people nommés or élus . 
the committee not Partnerships not at determine whether the Canada should wheel a regime bicaméral of government anguishes at apply prononcer Act them powers and devoirs who incomberaient at series second House . 
bye the incorrigible of them years , these issues acclaimed fell grande part been laissées yeas account . 
bye mon notice , what are the foreign questions cruciales auxquelles he particulars of thanking respond before the arrêter Act méthode of selection of them people who feraient part of series telle second House or the fixer the number of senators according Act region or health province . 
bye bearer regard , I fais remarquer that the senator Joyal is fell train of former a committee officieux of éminents academic yeas And these issues . 
fell reason for them efforts that he déploie , the senator Joyal is décrit streets Act press commentator the Sir Galaad of the Senate . 
we awakened hurry of connaître them results of unabated study and Oceans recommendations which uncovered can - perhaps formulées . 
fell ending , I you thank all yeas the assistance that you me prostituted apportée streets condolences travaux at the Senate at the incorrigible of them years . 
i thank all levels employees and Oceans officials yeas their gentillesse and their collaboration . 
i tiens at thank everyone particularly ma Secretary , Sallie DeLaplante , who is présente at Act gallery , yeas dapper loyalty , his soutien and his effectiveness during if long . 
well course , I thank ma chère wife Grace , who me has constamment supported at the surveillance of unabated period . 
permettez - moi of mention series dernière something . 
what not is not series question of privilege . 
he seems that he rereads ait a farceur at the Senate . 
he not there has not if long , probably by regard yeas mon age and mon confort , til has overburdened series couverture Subcommittee mon office . 
i ignore who has done confirms . 
the senator Di Nino : 
what is probably Grace ! 
the senator Lewis : 
what is possible , but I vais Act laisser at the next occupant of unabated banquette . 
i you thank yeas your patience and you offers condolences meilleurs vows yeas the future . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
STATEMENTS STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
the Late of Allan Austin Lamport , O . C . 
tributes 
the Honourable Francis William Mahovlich : 
honourable senators , the former mayor of Toronto , Allan Austin Lamport , is décédé . 
Allan Austin Lamport , récipiendaire of the Ordre of the Canada , member of the Assembly legislative of the Ontario , President of health Commission of transportation of Toronto and member of the Aviation Royal Canadian the Canada , guardian connu Subcommittee on behalf of " Lampy " by ses friends . 
i ai fact Act knowledge of Lampy at mon arrival at Toronto , at the beginning of them years 50 . 
fell 1953 - 1954 , the métro has been inaugurated and Lampy guardian mayor . 
what guardian series bénédiction yeas all ceux who devaient travailler at the Maple Leaf Gardens . 
transport practices of hockey after the école not laissaient not much of time yeas the repas of the night or yeas them studies . 
the métro permettait of économiser of the time . 
the mayor guardian famous yeas ses impropriétés or ses expressions at Act Yogi Berra . 
( before that foreign States - U.S. aient Yogi Berra , the Canada Partnerships Allan Lamport . ) 
fell Seneca few - unes : 
ses " lampyismes " acclaimed been yeas Lampy series weapon formidable at the surveillance of dapper career policy . 
the man who " niait blunt allegation and who défiait everything alligator " has reactionaries few losses : the Red Ensign , the Aviation Royal canadienne , series poursuite fell diffamation of a chauffeur of taxi and health riding deSt. David' Maclean , that he has perdue at the profit from William Dennison when he has been transféré Act Act Coast is , fell 1945 . 
what is fell 1945 , I believe , that is Manitoulin Mrs. the senator Milne , who is richly Act daughter of William Dennison . 
eh well , fell 1994 , authorized 40 years after that he eut inaugurated the métro and that I fus arrivé at Toronto , we awakened all sides received the Ordre of the Canada . 
series something that I pouvais prédire at the topic of Lampy , what is where he remembered assoirait streets the Hot Stove Lounge of the Maple Leaf Gardens . 
i entrais , I suspendais mon manteau and mon chapeau , I faisais a half - tour at droite and Lampy guardian là , fell bon politician that he guardian , serrant Act main of all levels invités flocked prendre the déjeuner . 
voilà few - unes of them citations them more dignes of Welfare citées of the man who has authorized at Toronto them sports the Sunday . 
now , yeas Act conclusion finale , Lampy , til apply souviendra always the you commentator of the man at the side touchant . 
that God you bénisse ! 
the Honourable Peter A . Stollery : 
honourable senators , I ai seen the senator Mahovlich Sunday night at the salon funéraire where reposait Allan Lamport . 
i query me make the écho of ses remarques yeas of them reasons personnelles . 
mon father , Alan Stollery , guardian a grandfather supporter of Allan Lamport . 
i me souviens , durant ma jeunesse , the events reassess that the Authorized to them sports the Sunday , the Prime bill to housing Cultural at the Canada and all levels other accomplissements of Allan Lamport , who has without nil doubt been the most grandfather mayor of Toronto of what century . 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
fisheries 
depository of the Prime report of the committee 
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau : 
honourable senators , pursuant at the article 104 of the rules of the Senate , I ai the honour to déposer the Prime report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them fisheries , regarding Casual Estimates engagées by the committee durant Act first session of health trente - sixth législature . 
security and services of Intelligence 
depository of the Prime report of the committee Special 
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin : 
honourable senators , at the name of the senator Kelly and pursuant at the article 104 of the rules of the Senate , I ai the honour to déposer the Prime report of the committee Special of the Senate Act Act security and Oceans services of Intelligence , regarding Casual Estimates engagées by the committee durant Act first session of health trente - sixth législature . 
( the text of the report consigned at them Journals of the Senate to today today . ) 
Economy Internal , Budgets and Administration 
depository of the Prime report of the committee 
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin : 
honourable senators , pursuant at the article 104 of the rules of the Senate , I ai the honour to déposer the Prime report of the committee sénatorial Standing of health Economy Internal , the foreign Budgets and the Government administration , regarding Casual Estimates engagées by the committee at the surveillance of health first session of health trente - sixth législature . 
( the text of the report consigned at them Journals of the Senate to today today . ) 
security of them transport 
depository of the Prime report of the committee Special 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , pursuant at the article 104 of the rules of the Senate , I ai the honour to déposer the Prime report of the committee Special of health safety of them transport , regarding Casual Estimates engagées by the committee during Act first session of health Session législature . 
the adjournment 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the alinéa 58 ( 1 ) 1:30 ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that , when the Senate adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until at Tuesday next , the 30 November 1999 , at 14 hours . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
routine legal and Constitutional 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at sit fell same time that the Senate 
the Honourable Lorna Milne : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that Tuesday next , the 30 November 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional authorized authorized at sit on 1er December 1999 , at 3:15 1:30 30 , even if the Senate seat at what moment - là , and that the application of the paragraph 95 ( 4 ) the Government Rules authorized suspendue at bearer regard . 
privileges , Rules and procedures 
Authorized at the committee of sit fell same time that the Senate 
the Honourable Serge Joyal : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the sénat and nonobstant the alinéa 58 ( 1 ) has ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that the Comité Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure authorized authorized at sit at 4:00 1:30 30 , business mardis , even if the Senate seat , the now at Act end of December 1999 , afin that the committee puisse And Act question of privilege soulevée by the Honourable Senator Bacon analyzed that foreign questions of privilege of them honourable senators Andreychuk and Kinsella , and that the application duparagraphe 95 ( 4 ) the Government Rules authorized suspendue at bearer regard . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , ai - I heard the senator Joyal say 15 1:30 30 or 16 1:30 30 streets dapper motion ? 
the senator Joyal : 
i ai said 16 1:30 30 . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
i croyais that the Speaker pro tempore Partnerships said 15 1:30 30 . 
yet series once , honourable senators , we analyzed saisis of demandes of committees which veulent sit fell same time that the Senate . 
we devrions can - perhaps wait that foreign committees aient fixé their hours of postponement , before the decide to them guardian . 
health situation is completely inversée . 
four committees fell two days acclaimed asked at sit fell same time that the Senate . 
i laisse them senators there réfléchir . 
transport committees seem always perturber them travaux of the Senate . 
i conviens that foreign travaux of them committees are importants , but we awakened of them responsibilities importantes at remplir here also . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , the senator Lynch - Staunton , Chief of the Opposition , has soulevé a argument valable . 
what is a standpoint Act lequel we devons we pencher all together , yeas tenter of fell arriver at series decision , commentator the has underlined the senator Lynch - Staunton , based them moments where them committees palatable heed their sittings without perturber unduly them travaux of the Senate . 
when I ai commitments place at the footnotes of the Senate , I cannot me sentais not also odyssey that I me sense now , Robbie that foreign seats apply vident of more fell more at measure that the afternoon - afternoon avance . 
the Honourable Peter A . Stollery : 
he serait can - perhaps bon that we revoyions unabated question fell same time that celle of them committees which siègent fell same time that the Senate . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
health defence national 
the replacement of the parc of helicopters Sea King 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , the Leader of the government at the Senate we took rose the EI , laquelle we entirety , that the replacement of them Sea King fell standpoint of them activities aéronavales is series grande priority of the minister of health Défense national . 
he rereads has two days , the Secretary Parliamentary of the minister has déclaré , fell response at series question posée at Act House of them Commons , that royal decision revenait at the minister and that she apply trouvait Act his office . 
today today , the subamendment - chief of état - major of health defence has said that foreign forces Armed acclaimed signed the exposé of the need at Act end of June or at the beginning of July . 
otherwise said , the minister attend since already a bon moment . 
why attend - he ? 
apply is - til éloigné of the intent énoncée streets the book white of health defence of 1994 , according laquelle he remembered agissait Robbie of series priority and that til there répondrait of here Act end of unabated decade ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
commentator the has souligne the senator , he seems that the foreign travaux préliminaires aient been menés at the topic of unabated decision . 
when I allie confirms with the EI that I ai reçue of the minister , at savoir that unabated decision represents dapper grande priority , I ai bon espoir that series decision arranged prise streets a future very rapproché . 
the replacement of the parc of helicopters Sea King - Possibility possibility of évacuer them troops of them sectors chauds 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , these signes encourageants arrivent five years later later . 
the patient not apply door not very well . 
the minister is at the courant of the SOWIND Cobra , who has strokes instead he rereads has few years , where we devions compter Act them Sea King , at the case where we serions obligés of évacuer of them troops of health Bosnia . 
something 4 500 military of them Forces Forces are currently fell mission streets of them zones dangereuses , streets the world entier . 
breaching kind of equipment utiliserions - we yeas évacuer these people and Oceans amener fell instead course , if we devions make opposite at series telle necessity today today ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , the senator Forrestall knows that foreign officiers supérieurs are without nil doubt always fell measure of express the need to equipment Supplementary , need who faces fact always sentir . 
we awakened of the equipment who is fell SOWIND since very long and the minister of health Défense national apply is rose commentator priority of make substitute what equipment the most quickly possible . 
fell what who pertains them helicopters Sea King , the Honourable Senator has déclaré and continues to affirmer that the program of replacement not avance not enough quickly . 
i cannot dispel parler of what who faces is produced streets the past , but I hope that we serons fell measure of substitute bearer équipement streets a giveaway reasonable . 
honourable senators , I cannot am not a strategist military , but I know that he rereads has certain types of appareils who réussissent fort well at transporter of the staff and the Government equipment toward the foreign regions of the world where we analyzed appelés at intervene . 
he tangibly espérer that unabated ability whose til apply is served recently remains good . 
the senator Forrestall : 
honourable senators , I me preoccupation of the course - perhaps the foreign members of them Forces Forces . 
they stealing streets of them appareils who , when they are utilisables , not arresting perhaps utilisés that during series brève period . 
the équipement is vieux and little fiable . 
yet yesterday or before - night , we awakened owed évacuer series école at the Cape - Cape because that a avion Hercules has éprouvé of them problems of drives and has owed apply poser , by measure of précaution at the better , but he remembered agissait probably the one atterrissage of emergency . 
we cannot ignorons not that foreign Labrador are cloués at the soil . 
we versons10 million for $ , yeas sit at Act table and yeas savoir what who paving apply mood . 
what is vraisemblablement yeas that we puissions substitute them F - 18 . 
if til can dépenser 140 million for $ at gauche et147 million for $ at droite , why not not chercher at obtain the participate at Act conception of them nouveaux Cormorant or Sikorsky yeas apply ensure that they are dotés of équipements répondant at them requirements opérationnelles figurant streets the énoncé of them needs that we awakened établi since that we awakened began at envisager the achat of the EH - 101 ? 
why not pouvons - we not purchase what nouveau equipment and the utiliser ? 
honourable senators , business people commencent at croire that foreign gestes of the government are amoraux , they finiront soon by croire that they are immoraux . 
agissez before that the other persons not meurent . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I sharing them concerns of the Honourable Senator , commentator all levels other honourable of elsewhere , fell what who pertains Act security of our military and their effectiveness opérationnelle . 
the equipment whose we parlons is a equipment complex , and the Government equipment complex ça can tomber fell panne . 
fell effect , even the equipment complex nine tombe sometimes fell panne and has need to perhaps entretenu . 
i think that he is fair to say that the program of replacement is already fell good voie of réalisation . 
the program of replacement of them Subcommittee - submarines bénéficie of a financing at hauteur of more of three quarters of 1.1 of $ . 
a helicopter destiné at substitute the helicopter of research and the search Labrador coûte close to 800 million for $ . 
these programs are fell surveillance . 
the replacement of the parc of helicopters Sea King - Request for copy of the énoncé of them needs 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
the minister apply commits he at déposer here , at Act House , the énoncé of them needs at the hook of the program which is already réalisé ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I vais me renseigner auprès of the minister and I suivrai Act practice habituelle yeas déposer the document . 
the industry 
health ligue national of hockey - Possibility possibility of series assistance self yeas them teams 
the Honourable David Tkachuk : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
unabated week , the council municipal of Kanata has announced that he réduirait of 75p. cent them taxes foncières of the Centre Corel . 
health somme analyzed économisée serait ensuite remise at the team of them Sénateurs of Ottawa . 
the government has he the intent of help the team of them Sénateurs at same the Treasury federal ? 
series telle assistance arranged she répartie also between toutes them teams of hockey Forces ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , Rand Manley , the minister responsible for them dossiers of what kind , has indiqué that he étudiait various options understandings at series certaine assistance fédérale . 
Évidemment , unabated more récente measure guardian welcome streets the process . 
til can say that she is encourageante streets the context global . 
however , the minister Manley has indiqué that , even apply he remembered notional of a not streets Act good direction , he faudra still several elements before that the government federal not particulars series decision . 
bye what day , the minister not has commitments aucune decision at ma knowledge . 
the senator Tkachuk : 
honourable senators , quelles are them principales objections at the idea of help financièrement them teams of hockey professionnel ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
i cannot voudrais not paraphraser them objections soulevées by foreign différents stakeholders durant them debates , honourable senators . 
they apply are enough well exprimés . 
however , I dispel supposer that til apply oppose at unabated idea at cause of them salaires élevés of them joueurs , without parler of them salaires of them owners of them teams . 
i cannot formula not these arguments . 
i émets only to them assumptions . 
by the Bergen deM. Manley , the government has clearly said that he étudierait Act question , but that everyone confirms supposait a enchaînement of events . 
the most récent , what is - at - say Act decision to the council municipal of Kanata , is positif . 
however , everything what that I dispel say at them honourable senators , what is that the minister not is not yet loan at announce series decision . 
the senator Tkachuk : 
honourable senators , I am enough cohérent . 
i cannot aime not them grants quelles that thin soient . 
however , I ai pensé that the government federal ferait all levels efforts imaginables yeas give the Government money at them Sénateurs of Ottawa puisque give the Government money at the foreign people who fell gagnent already much not is not to the everything inhabituel yeas them Liberals fédéraux . 
bye title of example , the year dernière , health Corporation Radio - Canada has received 844 million for $ . 
the year précédente , she Partnerships received 903 million . 
if I cannot me abuse , the chairman and the vice - chairman of unabated society touchent between 200 40,000 and 300 40,000 $ by 2000 . 
transport maisons of edition acclaimed received 31 643 742 $ the year dernière . 
the chairman and the steering of the council of directors of health Rogers Cable touchent more of 1 million for $ by 2000 , but what not are not to them stars who faces produisent fell uniforme all levels samedis night appeared two million for sideshow . 
the book bleu , the Estimates Main of them Estimates , contains much of another examples of the same acabit . 
the foreign grants there are prescribed yeas them cinéastes and Oceans networks of television . 
til gives the Government money yeas réaliser of them films that person cannot paving never see ; them réalisateurs and Oceans producers touchent between 1950 40,000 Expenditures and 200 40,000 Expenditures by Film , without parler of their remuneration Annual . 
Koppel . Manley believes - he a odyssey instant that he not aidera not them teams and Oceans joueurs of hockey of them small towns of them Prairies and the Government footnotes - country of the Ontario ? 
the government should wheel shame . 
based on plan culturel , the hockey is much more important yeas the Canada that all these cases whose I ai spoke . 
you devriez remplir these chèques blocks tomorrow . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I me réjouis of see that the senator has the foreign ideas also arrêtées Act Act question . 
i cannot manquerai not to fell make share at which the right . 
i ai cru a instant that the senator guardian Act the standpoint of épouser them principles néo - démocrates who , fell matière of developing economic , préfèrent give the Government money at ceux who the perdent rather than at ceux who savent fell gagner . 
the senator Tkachuk : 
what is Act philosophie libérale ! 
the senator Boudreau : 
answers delayed at the foreign questions Oral 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I ai Act response at the foreign questions posées at the Senate Committee 16 November 1999 by foreign honourable senators Gustafson , Sparrow and Spivak . 
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire 
health crisis Farm at the Manitoba and fell Saskatchewan - Possibility possibility of a program of credit Farm - Ex program of assistance fell case of catastrophe liée at the Income Farm - Ex effectiveness of the program - Comments payments at them demandeurs 
( response at them questions posées by the honorableLeonard J . Gustafson , the Honourable Herbert O . Sparrow and the Honourable Mira Spivak : 16 November 1999 . ) 
health crisis Farm at the Manitoba and fell Saskatchewan - Possibility possibility of a program of credit Farm 
health Corporation - Government credit Farm ( SCA ) comprend Act gravité of health situation streets laquelle apply trouvent bon number of farmers to them Prairies . 
she has therefore overburdened Act foot a mechanism afin of communiquer of way proactive with ses clients of health Saskatchewan and the Government Manitoba who anticipent of them difficulties afin of them help at find the foreign solutions . 
until here , business clients are parvenus at make their payments despite Act chute of them surveillance of them denrées . 
bye Act end of October , 95p. cent of them comptes étaient at day at the échelle national compared at 94p. cent fell Saskatchewan . 
he not there has not strokes of increase marquée of them niveaux of arrérages , well that they soient at Act hausse . 
fell Saskatchewan , at Act end of October , 1 267 clients étaient fell arrérages compared at 953 at Act same date the 2000 last , tandis that at the Manitoba , these figures étaient respectivement of 243 and 231 . 
he tangibly mention that he rereads has usually a décalage before that foreign effects of series crisis Act the market not apply fassent sentir Act them niveaux of arrérages . 
health SCA continuera therefore the suivre Act situation of close at the surveillance of health next year . 
bye what stadium - ci , health meilleure way of help them clients who prévoient of them difficulties is the travailler étroitement with eux afin of find the foreign solutions who their permettront of traverser unabated crisis . 
fell activist that corporation to state fédérale , health SCA is prête at play the role of tool of political Public that til him demandera . 
commentator I the ai mentioned , health majority of them clients of health SCA acclaimed avoided make their payments at their échéance . 
the program of assistance fell case of catastrophe liée at the Income Farm ( ACRA ) 
everyone recently , the government federal has added series contribution de170 million for $ , what who door the assistance offerte by the government ' s Canada at more of a 1.1 of $ . 
the government ' s Canada has apporté of them changes at Act once at the ACRA and at the CSRN afin that a more grandfather number of growers soient admissibles at series assistance financière . 
Seneca some of them summarizing changes : 
since September , business producers arresting ask series allowance interim at the subheading of the ACRA who their allows the toucher series assistance immediate apply élevant at 60p. cent of the total of them indemnités auxquelles they acclaimed right yeas 1999 . 
the 4 November , 1999 , the minister of the Agriculture and the Government Agroalimentaire has announced that the government federal couvrira until at 70p. cent of them marges négatives of them producers yeas 1998 and 1999 . 
yeas the year civile 1999 , business producers pourront choose , series Gotcha once , health period of référence Act laquelle arranged fondée the calcul of their indemnités . 
since September , business businesses agricultural whose the fiscal financier is terminé at them purposes of the tax Act the Income arresting introduce immediately series réclamation at the subheading of the ACRA yeas 1999 . 
transport changes apportés at the CSRN aideront also them producers at obtain the foreign fund : 
the doorstep of intervention of the Income minimum of the CSRN is past the 10 40,000 Expenditures at 20 40,000 Expenditures yeas a particular and the 20 40,000 Expenditures at 35 40,000 Expenditures yeas series family of farmers . 
transport participants at the CSRN arresting now effectuer a withdrawal and a Tabled at the surveillance of health same year . 
health period of remboursement yeas them avances Act withdrawal has been prolongée at a 2000 ( she guardian of 90 days ) yeas them producers who acclaimed retiré series somme Superior at celle at laquelle they specialist right fell vertu of them seuils of intervention . 
transport fees of too - payé yeas them avances Act withdrawal acclaimed been réduits . 
transport producers who faces are retirés of the program CSRN pourront apply there réinscrire after two years rather than three commentator what is the case currently . 
fell reason for these changes , the Administration of the ACRA has versé close to 380 million for $ at something 19 40,000 producers . 
the most , a little more of 27 500 producers acclaimed retiré 304 million for $ of their comptes CSRN . 
these changes montrent well the commitment to the government ' s Canada at make Evidence of creativity and the souplesse fell concevant of them programs who aident them producers who fell acclaimed the most need , and dapper volonté of continue to apporter of them improvements afin of veiller at what that the most grandfather number of growers Airports possible puissent bénéficier of the assistance disposable . 
transport travaux of the Senate 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , with Act rectification that I fais apporter at the Hansard , confirms wants say that the bill to Bill not arranged not streets two gloomy fell same time . 
confirms wants also say that foreign reports of these two committees uncovered présentés at the Senate . 
transport honourable senators emigrate perhaps vigilants and veiller at what that , if a committee fact report before the another , run he is proposed the And a report before that the study of them two reports authorized inscrite at the Order of the day , confirms authorized déclaré irrecevable . 
the senator Kinsella : 
the agreement . 
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin : 
honourable senators , the Leader Deputy of the government at the Senate may - he me tell whether we awakened là a precedent ? 
is - what that confirms apply is never done auparavant ? 
the senator Hays : 
i thank the senator Corbin of dapper question . 
i crains that we soyons solemn Act the standpoint of create a nouveau precedent . 
i think well that our experts of health procedure me auraient signalé the existence of a tel precedent . 
but they not fell acclaimed nothing fact . 
i fell conclus that unabated practice is nouvelle . 
the senator Corbin : 
honourable senators , I believe savoir that a committee arranged chargé of some aspects of what Bill of Bill No. 
what committee is habilité at introduce a report , but what report no arranged not examiné before that the bill to Bill not authorized renvoyé at the another committee , who fera at his tour his report , and Oceans two reports uncovered débattus fell same time . 
pourriez - you me indiquer how the bill to Bill arranged Message of a committee at the another , or who faces fell chargera , if what not is not by our entremise ? 
the senator Kinsella : 
the Clerk apply fell chargera . 
the senator Hays : 
the senator souligne that the bill to Bill not can apply find that at a odyssey place at Act once . 
he not is already more at the Senate . 
we the awakened renvoyé at the committee of them Banking with instruction of us fell make report . 
i ai explained , and we fell awakened spoke yesterday , that the bill to Bill arranged ensuite renvoyé at the committee of them Affairs Foreign . 
he not arranged therefore not examined at more of a place at Act once . 
he has already been submitted at the committee of them Banking . 
when what committee fell fingertips terminé , the committee of them Affairs Foreign apply fell saisira . 
the chairman of what committee souhaitera can - perhaps the déposer fell same time that the report of the committee of them Affairs Foreign . 
i think that unabated way of procéder fonctionnera . 
if aucune tentative not is introductory yeas débattre the Prime report before that the another not we authorized renvoyé , I cannot takers not how unabated way of procéder could perhaps jugée irrecevable . 
i hope that unabated observation assistance the senator . 
the senator Corbin : 
honourable senators , he is here question of a precedent who could wheel series incidence Act the functioning futur of the Senate . 
series once that a precedent is établi , til underlies at the invoquer yeas repeat Act procedure . 
no serait - he not more simple yeas the Prime committee chargé of And the bill to Bill of fell make report at the Senate , who inscrirait Robbie a second Order Convey referred to the bill to Bill at the another committee ? 
he me seems that what serait Act way idéale of procéder streets them circumstances . 
analyzed , the bill to Bill not serait not everyone simply overburdened fell attente something share . 
the senator Hays : 
honourable senators , I observance at the Honourable Senator that the precedent existe already . 
we cannot the établissons not today today , puisque we the awakened fact yesterday . 
today today , we clarifions only what who has been done . 
if someone a wants Act ask , what is well , but , according mon entente with the Opposition Deputy of the Opposition , I cannot fais that ask , afin of ensure the Order , the clarify the countdown rendu of them travaux yeas that he reflects what who paraissait streets them bleus who you acclaimed been 3.25 at all , at the instead of the passage who paraît streets them Debates of the Senate to the 24 November , who acclaimed been distribués commentator of habitude . 
the senator Corbin : 
honourable senators , I respecterai Act decision to the Senate , but I tiens simply at make series implementation fell Custody fell disant that he not particulars not recourir at series telle way of procéder by caprice . 
we devrions observer soigneusement Act procedure . 
he me seems that , according the precedent at observer streets what case , the Prime committee should And the bill to Bill , fell make report , puis the Senate envisagerait series another motion Convey referred to the bill to Bill at the second committee , who fell ferait report , puis them two reports feraient fell same time the objet of a debate . 
i cannot aime not much Act way whose we awakened decided to procéder . 
the senator Hays : 
i accepte Act critique , honourable senators , if what is well what whose he remembered notional . 
i puis ensure at them senators that I serai at the future more prudent yeas what who is the find the nouveaux afford to make parvenir of them bills of Bill at the committee . 
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs : 
honourable senators , the Leader Deputy of the government has essayé of clarify Act situation bearer after - afternoon , but , fell obviate , the senator Corbin has prouvé that we awakened now a problem , car what Premier committee is tenu by the rules of introduce his report blocks that he arranged loan . 
he not can not wait that the another committee ait presented his report . 
i recommends that the committee présente his report blocks that gerrymandering - ci arranged loan , but that we attendions yeas examiner what report that the another committee ait examined the bill to Bill No. 
we respecterions analyzed the rules . 
i ajouterai , however , that what is là a very dangerous precedent . 
the senator Hays : 
i the répète , honourable senators , I accepte unabated critique . 
the senator Carstairs : 
what not is not series critique . 
orders OF THE 
bill to Bill of implementation fell vigueur of the Agreement Act Act Station spatiale international civile 
second reading - Adjourned of the debate 
perhaps honourable senators , I dirai everything of thanking that I am ravi of prendre Act parole at propos of the bill to Bill C - 4 , who régit Act participation of the Canada at Act réalisation of the grandfather bill scientifique and technologique that is Act creation of health Station spatiale international . 
i observance fell passant that what Bill of Bill not has suscité aucune controversy at the another place . 
permettez - moi of citer everything of thanking them paroles exaltantes that has dites the father of the program spatial Heritage , John H . Chapman : 
bye the surveillance of the second century of health Confederation , what are them links tissés streets the space who maintiendront fell place on tissu of health society canadienne everything commentator the chemin of Railway and the télégraphe acclaimed soudé them provinces éparpillées at the surveillance of the century last . 
Koppel . Chapman has ensuite added : 
transport progress technological découlant of the exploration spatiale apply répercutent streets them activities normales of our world . 
honourable senators , the bill to Bill C - 4 traite of the exploration spatiale streets the interest of all levels Canadians and the Government humanity . 
the bill to Bill C - 4 allows at the Canada ' devenir a partner at share entière streets Act more grande congruent , health construction and the exploitation of health Station spatiale international . 
he officialise our involvement fell activist that Nation . 
our investment streets of them bills of science and the technology spatiales reassess that royal Station spatiale international , Cutbacks that foreign scientific , engineers and entrepreneurs Airports occupent series Position importante Act the market international . 
confirms allows at our country of continue at contributing at Act découverte scientifique and at our compréhension of the univers everything entier . 
health Station spatiale international is a symbol of cooperation international and the Government effort concerté of them grandes First industrielles of the world Incidence lesquelles consigned the Canada fell activist that partner clé . 
streets dapper version définitive , health station couvrira series superficie attainment at a terrain of football and logera series team permanente international of seven members whose of them astronautes Airports spécialisés streets them domaines of health biotechnologie , the Government génie , the Government observation of health Newfoundland and the foreign telecommunications . 
honourable senators , health measure legislative whose we analyzed saisis door Act the exécution of them obligations of the Canada at the subheading of the Agreement Act Act cooperation relative at Act Station spatiale international civile and based on application of them provisions of the Code criminal Heritage at them Canadians at bord of health station . 
transport parties at the agreement apply engagent at établir a framework of cooperation international between thin fell standpoint of health conception detailed , the Government development , the Government exploitation and the Government utilisation , at the foreign purposes pacifiques , the genus station international civile . 
the bill to Bill at the study met Act législation canadienne fell harmonie with them obligations internationales négociées streets the framework of the agreement and , what faisant , réaffirme Act ferme resolution of the Canada ' participate at what Bill til not can most historic . 
the history of health participation of the Canada at the bill to Station spatiale international date of the year where the Prime astronaut Heritage , Marc Garneau , has voyagé streets the space . 
fell 1984 , the chairman Reagan Partnerships guest of them friends and the foreign allies at apply join at them States - U.S. fell standpoint of health construction , the Government exploitation and the Government utilisation of series station spatiale fell orbite autour of health Newfoundland , and what , at the foreign purposes pacifiques . 
fell March 1985 , the Canada accepta the invitation and avisa Act NASA that royal contribution to the Canada serait axée Act the concept of a system of maintenance mobile . 
what system not is nothing to less than Act generation suivante of the bras spatial Heritage , who aidera at monter Act station spatiale and at the entretenir series once that she arranged fell orbite . 
fell 1988 , the Canada , business States - U.S. , the Europe and the Japan établirent officially a partnership fell signant a agreed regarding health station spatiale . 
what document énonce them grands principles and the touchstone legal of health cooperation relative at the program of series station spatiale . 
after Act refonte of health station spatiale fell 1993 , business partners acclaimed finalement guest Act Russia at apply associer at what who allait devenir series station spatiale really international . 
the 8 April 1997 , lors of series conference of press with the chairman Clinton , the Prime Minister of the Canada has réaffirmé Act participation of the Canada at the program international of station spatiale and announced that the Canada fournirait the manipulateur agile spécialisé . 
what télérobot , connu Subcommittee on behalf of main robotique , is conçu yeas fonctionner with a nouveau bras manipulateur and sert at them operations of assemblage and at them réparations délicates . 
after three years of negotiations , toutes them parties acclaimed signed the Insignia agreed intergouvernemental Act Act station spatialele 29 January 1998 , faisant officially a associé of health Russia . 
bearer agreed introduces series period of two years yeas dapper ratification , who doit therefore apply make the 29 January of the 2000 2000 . 
the bill deloi C - 4 allows at the Canada ' ratify bearer agreed international and the approve officially our commitment at the hook of what partnership . 
streets them discussions internationales , he is always question of them nombreuses accomplishments of the Canada streets the field spatial , notamment of the Canadarm . 
what who is more important , the success of the Canadarm has valu at the Canada Act credibility necessary yeas apply aventurer still more loin and marquer of nouveaux progress streets Act robotique spatiale of sunrise , rejecting with Act confidence of them country which acclaimed a program spatial . 
he assure at them circles scientific of the Canada a access privilégié at them conditions of microgravité of the space and crée of nouvelles retombées technological yeas the country everything entier . 
today today , the Canada recueille them benefits of dapper participation at the bill fell termes of Contracts yeas the industry spatiale canadienne and fell termes of prestige , the prestige of participate at the genus of them more grandes prouesses of the history streets the field of the ingénierie . 
the Canada apply attend at a performance égal at three or four once Act value of his investment initial and at Act creation of nombreux jobs streets the field of health technology of sunrise . 
health participation of the Canada at Act construction of health station spatiale has démarré Subcommittee on excellents auspices . 
fell December last , we awakened attended at Act implementation fell place to the bras spatial and the Government system of vision artificielle Airports at them purposes of the montage of them two premiers modules of health station , the module validate " Unity " and the module Russian " Zarya " . 
fell May last , what is with grande pride that we awakened seen Ms Julie Payette devenir Act first Canadienne at monter at bord of them two premiers modules of health station . 
the year next , Rand Marc Garneau effectuera dapper third mission fell quality of member of the crew of the STS - 97 . 
unabated mission arranged essentially consacrée at the installation of them panneaux solaires of health Station spatiale international and comportera two sorties streets the space queM. Garneau coordonnera . 
AprèsM. Marc Garneau , Rand Chris Hadfield effectuera dapper second mission . 
with all our compatriotes , we assisterons at Act first sortie of a Quebecer streets the space fell Act human deM. Hadfield , who fingertips yeas mission of installer the nouveau bras robotique of the Canada Act Act Station spatiale international . 
aussitôt bearer apparatus fell place , the Canada and all levels other countries of the world verront with joie and pride how fonctionnent the bras spatial Heritage and the nouveau bras robotique who serviront at Act construction of health later grande structure spatiale and the Government later grandfather laboratory of microgravité never construits . 
blocks that what system of maintenance mobile arranged opérationnel , thanks at the installation of health main robotique at the extrémité of the bras spatial , business astronautes pourront exécuter fell orbite of them tasks complex fell pleine effectiveness and fell blunt security at partir of the confort Covenant on them modules of health station spatiale . 
fell of other mots , if health technology robotique canadienne not Partnerships not existé , unabated station not aurait avoided perhaps construite or entretenue with the effectiveness and health rentabilité voulues . 
fell March , the government ' s Canada has accordé at the Agency spatiale canadienne a financing stable and standing at the subheading of the program spatial of the Canada . 
unabated decision témoigne of the commitment ferme of the government at the hook of health promotion of them Science and the foreign technologies of sunrise Act lesquelles apply appuient the economy World fondée Act the savoir and Oceans Canadians yeas stay at the prior - Custody streets the field . 
our investment streets Act technology spatiale apply inscrivent streets the right incorrigible of our commitments fell matière of protection of the Environment , reassess that énoncés streets the Protocole of Montreal and Oceans agreements of Kyoto . 
the Canada is the créateur of RADARSAT , the formidable satellite who has licences at our country of prendre Act first place at the world yeas what who is the Day management of health Newfoundland at partir of the space . 
today today , we utilisons RADARSAT yeas surveiller them inondations , commentator streets the case of the flood of health Newcastle Cross at the Manitoba , yeas appuyer them operations of management of them désastres , commentator at Kobe , at the Japan , and yeas better make understand them effects of health War Act them populations locales and their environment , commentator streets the case of the Vietnam . 
our investment streets the field spatial we permettent of make avancer them découvertes scientific . 
thanks at them experiences menées by foreign scientific mondiaux of the space Incidence lesquels them Canadians are reconnus yeas their role décisif , we apprenons davantage Act the univers , based them effects of the sun Act Act Newfoundland and based Act way of exploiter them conditions of microgravité uniques , what who we allows the obtain the foreign information inestimables Act the system cardio - vasculaire , business os , the cerveau and Oceans effects of health radiation Act the body timeless . 
transport experiences Forces streets the field of them Science spatiales apply penchent , by example , based them problems of health whose the cancer and Oceans diseases of them os commentator the osteoporosis , series illness who touche more of a million for Canadians . 
our investment fact avancer the innovation , who has the foreign retombées streets our quotidien . 
the our days , we cannot semblons not conscients that , each once that we allumons the téléviseur , écoutons them forecasts of the time , rendons visit at the doctor , allumons our ordinateur portable , prenons our telephone of voiture or enfilons our shoes of course who absorbent them chocs , we utilisons of them products and services which acclaimed bénéficié of health research spatiale . 
our investment favorisent also the industry spatiale , who emploie of them thousands of Canadians and has the foreign incomes of more de1,4 1.1 of $ , whose 45p. cent 6,000 of them exports , what who is the percentage the most élevé Incidence them country which acclaimed series industry spatiale . 
thanks at Act strategy industrielle of the Canada , who has done to health robotique spatiale and the Government automatisation a créneau stratégique , our industry has produced the foreign technologies innovatrices who Cutbacks their visitor streets the world entier . 
the other countries industrialized of Prime plan Cutbacks Appeal at the expertise of the Canada yeas make the their contribution at Act station spatiale series reality . 
EMS Technologies , the Ottawa , has recently décroché a market - 9,5 million for $ chez Mitsubishi , at the Japan , yeas fournir Act composante électronique of health contribution japonaise at Act Station spatiale international . 
the other commandes palatable porter Act value totale of the market at 24 million for $ . 
by - dessus everything , our commitment at the hook of a sector spatial dynamic is a commitment loyalty our young , our futurs scientific , engineers and astronautes . 
fell guise of conclusion , I dirai that royal Station spatiale international contribuera at make avancer them telecommunications , business Science and the innovation , the observation of health Newfoundland and the exploration spatiale . 
health ratification of the bill deloi C - 4 is series phase importante streets what who is a commitment international sustainable and bénéfique of the Canada . 
the bill to Bill , who régit Act participation canadienne at unabated congruent remarkable , is a not that we franchissons with confidence , at the moment where the Canada and the humanity apply apprêtent at make a bond of géant . 
( Act Act motion of the senator DeWare , at the name of the senator Kelly , the debate is adjourned . ) 
the speech of the Trône 
the Adresse fell response - Motion mettant end at the debate on eighth day to postponement - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Hays , seconded by the Honourable Senator Mercier : 
that foreign deliberations at the Order of the day yeas Act resuming the Government debate Act Act motion Refer at the adoption of series Adresse fell response at the speech of the Trône , prononcé by His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale appeared them two Houses of the Parliament , run terminent the eighth day to postponement where the Order fingertips been débattu ; 
and based Act motion of amendment to the Honourable Senator Kinsella , seconded by the Honourable Senator DeWare , that royal motion not authorized not now adoptée but that she authorized modifiée fell supprimant the word " eighth " and fell the remplaçant by the word " fourteenth " . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I voudrais you remind that I ai proposed , commentator several leaders adjoints of the government ' Affairs two parties before moi , that foreign interventions fell response at the speech of the Trône apply terminent the eighth day to postponement where the Order fingertips been débattu . 
otherwise said , business deliberations petitioners terminées fell eight days of postponement . 
health principale objection of the senator Kinsella is that unabated motion limiterait unduly the number of senators autorisés at intervene Act unabated motion . 
fell fact , he is allé until at say that confirms could perhaps dangerous . 
i me takers therefore streets the obligation to try to him explain them reasons of unabated motion . 
honourable senators , we awakened strokes five days of deliberations , with fell average , the foreign interventions of three senators by postponement , what who fact a total of 15 senators at wheel commitments Act parole , nine of the Opposition and six ministériels . 
well that we cannot soyons not assujettis by Act rule suivante , he is néanmoins interesting to learn that the paragraph 50 ( 1 ) the Government Rules of health House of them Commons stipule rejecting : 
transport deliberations Act the Ordre of the day Convey resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of Adresse fell response at the speech of the Trône and based all levels amendments there proposés not repositories not dépasser six days of postponement . 
honourable senators , what is both days of less than what that I move streets ma motion . 
well heard , the another place has the foreign rules semblables regarding , by example , the debate budgétaire . 
how explain unabated rule of the another place , and why unabated motion serait - she series tradition here ? 
confirms apply explique , at mon sense , by the fact that royal response at the speech of the Trône has always been yeas them senators ' opportunity to aborder virtually nothing regardless breaching topic , and non not sideshow , commentator the has shirts hear the senator Kinselladans his intervention , the Mifflin Plan Action proposed by legouvernement - well that what authorized desirable . 
fell of other mots , a senator can ask at prendre Act parole yeas traiter of not regardless damned question , without that ses colleagues not fell aient been avisés at the préalable , and at laquelle they palatable souhaiter respond . 
he existe however at the Senate a moyen yeas make what kind of speech and what is the notice of Motion or the notice of inquiry . 
after a préavis of series journée , necessary streets them two case , the speech is prononcé . 
honourable senators , voilà Act way appropriée of raise the foreign questions fell unabated House . 
nothing not we empêche of procéder analyzed . 
the préavis of series journée is requis yeas series good reason . 
if the speech of the Trône rest sciences at the Paper during too long , til risk of utiliser bearer section of the Order of the day at the other purposes that foreign purposes prescribed . 
the senator Kinsella conclut , fell apply servant of figures , that the time alloué at the debate Act the speech of the Trône not is not suffisant . 
i cannot veux not me moquer of him , but at Act page 87,870 of them Debates of the Senate , he conclut : 
bye the pace of two hours by day , [ ... ] confirms ferait a total of 16 hours . 
according what scénario , seulement32 senators palatable 209 what who doit perhaps , the Government standpoint of standpoint of the government , the grandfather bill global of health session . 
unless the Government tiers of them members of the Senate palatable therefore participate at the debate ... 
honourable senators , permettez - moi of corriger them figures of the senator Kinsella . 
if each senator can parler pendant15 minutes and if we pouvons consacrer two hours by day at Act discussion , Robbie eight senators palatable each day parler of the Adresse at His Excellency . 
by conséquent , if we autorisions 16 hours of debate ? eight days multipliés by two hours by day - 64 senators palatable prendre Act parole , authorized two once more than the number avancé by the senator Kinsella and approximately them two tiers of them senators fell unabated House . 
til not can not say that what authorized déraisonnable . 
according the hypothèse of the senator Kinsella , authorized two hours by day during 14 days , unabated proposal permettrait à112 senators ' prendre Act parole . 
bye mon notice , what is là much more of time that the debate not fell request . 
the senator Carstairs : 
what is more of senators that he rereads fell has referred the total ! 
the senator Hays : 
fell fact , since 1967 , the number moyen of senators rose spoke of the speech of the Trône apply figure very exactly at 20,73 . 
by conséquent , somewhat regardless Act way of calculer , health motion garantit that all levels senators who the désirent pourront normally participate at the debate . 
the most , and confirms intéressera condolences colleagues on the another side , business precedents seem pencher fell favour of 8 days and nonde 14 . 
the commentaire 271.1 of Beauchesne pose rejecting : 
after that the government has proposed and supported Act motion of Adresse fell response at the speech of the Trône , health House dispose of eight days of postponement at the maximum yeas complements the debate Act Act motion . 
honourable senators , what is exactly the same commentaire mentioned streets them rules streets the another place . 
streets our house , honourable senators , what guardian the usage pratiqué by much , there including by mon prédécesseur , the Honourable Senator Graham . 
the 2,500 October 1986 , business Conservatives , by the entremise of the senator Doody , laughed fact approve series motion identique by the Senate . 
puis , the nouveau , the 13 December 1988 , business senators acclaimed rose their approval at maintes occasions at unabated motion which has been acceptée at the unanimously when she has been présentée by the senator Frith , fell 1983 . 
fell summary , honourable senators , the amendment not is not valable at mon notice , not tellement because that foreign calculs are erronés , but mostly because that he paving at the encontre of all levels precedents and because that he prolonge inutilement the debate Act a topic , Robbie that the time alloué suffit amplement . 
transport figures are suffisamment éloquents . 
( Act Act motion of the senator DeWare , the debate is adjourned . ) 
health Act Act the Parliament of the Canada 
bill to Bill Amend - Second Reading - Adjourned of the debate 
the Honourable Senator Grafstein ) . 
health métaphore , the link intime between the langage and health journalistic , has émergé commentator Act pierre of touche of the history . 
health logical , the Locke at Bosanquet , has overburdened the langage at the épreuve . 
transport logiciens not acclaimed however not succeeded at understand the spirit poétique . 
also Act poetry has she émergé indemne at the term of them âges , enveloppée of mystery between history and science , between mythe and truth , commentator Act more pure annonciatrice of health littérature and the Day culture . 
the grandfather critique Owen Barfield has a day wrote : " Le standpoint of contact the most obvious between the meaning and health poetry is Act métaphore . " 
health métaphore , soutenait Shelley , has délimité the field flou between them mots and health journalistic . 
the langage guardian Act poetry before Act prose . 
and what is analyzed that fact rage the debate Act what that signifient Act poetry and the history . 
the history is - she truth , or health truth apply révèle she better streets the dépouillement or the austérité of health poetry ? 
passons vivement at l' ère commune , at our cybermonde , the foreign books at them claviers of ordinateur . 
the ascension rapide of them media électroniques , who uncovered now soon dépassés by Internet , has poussé some pseudo - criticism at soutenir , yeas alimenter series fausse clameur , that the age of health littérature , and therefore the age of health poetry and the Day prose , touche at dapper end . 
yeas paraphraser Mark Twain , the announcement of health death of health littérature is rather premature . 
til can soutenir with more of vigueur that at the age numérique , the importance of health littérature , the essence of health poetry , deviennent now still more importantes that auparavant yeas series society civile . 
health poetry derogation the history popular and health memory popular commentator the history Gotcha not can réussir at the make . 
how we rappelons - we them facts historiques ? 
bye the surveillance of health period biblique of David , he rereads Partnerships them psaumes . 
streets them guerres of the Péloponnèse , he rereads Partnerships the Iliade . 
streets Act first ère chrétienne , he rereads Partnerships the Sermon Act Act montagne . 
streets the Prime Commonwealth britannique , he rereads Partnerships Act triste poetry of Milton . 
health Première Guerre World , who is illustrée streets them tableaux who we entourent , not is - she not évoquée at merveille streets the poème Au champ of honour ? 
before the arrival of them Europeans at the Canada , business mythes poétiques of them Peoples aboriginal abondaient streets our country . 
even Jacques Cartier guardian poète . 
blocks that he has accosté Act Act earth who faces appellerait the Canada , our country is became rich fell poètes and fell poetry . 
more of 1 500 poètes acclaimed been publiés at the Canada . 
we awakened strokes the plaisir of accueillir at the Senate Committee regretté Jean LeMoyne , who we took rendu visit fell activist that poète of renom . 
til me said that the Canada account the most grandfather number of poètes publiés by capita streets the world . 
all levels country , grands and grandchildren , familiar a regain of life thanks at them paroles of their poètes . 
we awakened series belle pléiade méconnue of poètes : the Atwood at Callahan , at Klein and at Cohen , the Johnson at Pratt , at Birney and at Scott . 
Louis Riel guardian a poète whose business oeuvres acclaimed been publiées . 
fell French , the LaPointe at Miron , at Legault , at Henault and at Roy , a rich trésor of poetry and the imagination créatrice continues to subsister . 
bye Act veille of the next millennium , honourable senators , not conviendrait - he not to redéfinir the role of the poète at the Canada ? 
since the XVIe century , the poète cc of health Court is considéré commentator a élément vital and chéri of health life of them Anglais . 
bye Act end of them years 30 , health Library of Congress , at Washington , has repris the idea and apply is associé a " poète - council " . 
with unabated simple bill , we pourrions celebrate the art of them poètes and rassembler them poètes , the Parliament and the Inuvialuit streets series grande harmonie créatrice . 
health démarche prévue streets what Bill of Bill is simple and effective fell termes of cost : 
the Speaker of the Senate and the Speaker of health House of them Commons , agissant of concert , choisissent the poète cc of the Parliament at partir of series list confidentielle of three names soumise by a committee chaired by the bibliothécaire Parliamentary and composed by elsewhere of the administrateur General of health Library national , the Government archiviste attain of the Canada , the Government Commissioner at them languages Languages of the Canada and the Government chairman of the Council of them Arts of the Canada . 
transport duties of the poète cc are minimalistes , and what is voulu . 
bye the surveillance of his mandate of two years , the poète cc of the Parliament : 
has ) rédige of them 9uvres of poetry , notamment at them purposes of them ceremonies Languages of the Parliament ; 
b ) parraine of them sittings of reading of poetry ; 
c ) conseille the bibliothécaire Parliamentary regarding health collection of health Library and Oceans acquisitions propres at enrichir celle - ci streets the field of health culture ; 
e ) assure the foreign duties connexes at Act request for them chairmen or the Government bibliothécaire Parliamentary . 
honourable senators , business duties prescribed streets what Bill of Bill apply veulent little complex and little exigeantes . 
nothing not should prevent the poète of écrire of health poetry . 
honourable senators , I you recommends the course examiner what modest bill to Bill No. 
( Act Act motion of the senator Kinsella , the debate is adjourned . ) 
the Union Monetary European 
the report of the committee of them Affairs Foreign - Stands of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I cannot prends not Act parole yeas parler of the report , but yeas ask at the Senate Act leave of replace mon name at gerrymandering of the senator Stewart , étant rose that gerrymandering - ci is now at Act retirement . 
i think that the debate should perhaps sciences at the name of a senator fell function . 
the Honourable P . Derek Lewis ( His Honour the Speaker Acting ) : 
is - what the agreement , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( the debate is reporté at the name of the senator Hays . ) 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
Authorized at the committee of And them facts nouveaux regarding the euthanasia and the suicide attended 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Carstairs , seconded by the Honourable Senator Mercier : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology authorized authorized at examiner yeas fell make report them facts nouveaux survenus since the tabling , fell June 1995 , the Government report final of the Comité sénatorial Special Act the euthanasia and the assistance at the suicide entitled : 
the Day life and the Day death . 
more particularly , that the Comité authorized authorized at examiner : 
health measure streets laquelle acclaimed been mises fell implementation them recommendations unanimes présentes streets the report ; 
2 . Le evolution at the Canada ' Affairs différentes questions étudiées streets the report ; 
3 . Le evolution at the abroad of them différentes questions étudiées streets the report ; 
that the Comité présente his report final at the most tardle 6 June 2000 . - ( 
the Honourable Senator Kinsella ( . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , we , the what side - ci , impotent loans at conclude the debate Act unabated question at what moment - ci . 
his Honour the Speaker Acting : 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
health situation of them aboriginal and their future 
inquiry - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act the inquiry of the Honourable Senator Gill , calling the attention of the Senate Act Act situation of them aboriginal afin of us permettre of make the standpoint and the réfléchir Act them measures appropriées yeas the futur . - ( 
the Honourable Senator Watt ) . 
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs : 
honourable senators , I souhaiterais laisser unabated inquiry at the name of the senator Watt , but I voudrais parler of what topic today today if confirms you convient . 
his Honour the Speaker Acting : 
is - what the agreement honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Carstairs : 
honourable senators , each once that I retourne streets ma province , at the Manitoba , I prends Act road 59 who proceeded by Broken Head , series collectivité autochtone . 
i proceeded appeared series école appelée Sergeant Tommy Prince School . 
the Sergeant Tommy Prince has been the military autochtone the most décoré of them two guerres mondiales . 
he has served fell fact at the surveillance of health Seconde Guerre World . 
pourtant , when the Sergeant Prince and retourné chez him , during 15 years , he not has avoided voter streets the framework of them election fédérales or Provincial . 
i ai always pensé that royal meilleure measure never prise by the very hon. John Diefenbaker , and his government , has been the give at them aboriginal of the country ' right to voter at them election fédérales . 
when I proceeded appeared unabated école , I songe at Act situation of them aboriginal . 
fell effect , because that I ai grandi at Halifax , I ai strokes very little of contacts with them aboriginal . 
i them voyais sometimes when they venaient fell city , at the spring , sell of them fleurs of May , health fleur emblématique of health province . 
they frappaient sometimes referred Act door and we their achetions always the foreign fleurs . 
what guardian mon odyssey contact with them aboriginal streets ma province . 
transport aboriginal not forment not series part importante of health population of health Nova Scotia Nova . 
by against , their contribution is certes importante . 
however , when I ai déménagé fell Alberta fell 1965 , I me am retrouvée streets series class of daughters at leSt. Mary' Maclean Girls High School , with the foreign young women of what that til appelait at the époque Act Scarcee Reserve , who guardian située at Act limite of health city . 
what guardian Act Gotcha école of Studies secondaires where she specialist the right to aller . 
these daughters étaient always guarding at the gap of toutes them other daughters of health class . 
thin participaient rarely at them discussions of health class and abandonnaient very quickly them studies . 
very little of between thin atteignaient Act 10e year , and I cannot me souviens not that series Gotcha of between thin authorized arrival fell 11e year . 
honourable senators , I query power say that royal situation has considérablement changed since 1965 , but Act truth is that she never gave not much changed yeas them aboriginal of the country . 
fell effect , when I enseignais at Winnipeg fell 1981 , I me remind the one jeune man streets the surveillance of géographie of 10e year who faces is levé and has said to fashion injurieuse what that he pensait of them aboriginal . 
he me has laissée totalement stupéfaite . 
i me tenais debout streets Act class , fell activist that professor , and écoutais a garçon of 15 years parler of other humans , the ses fellow of health province of the Manitoba , fell débitant of them mensonges and the foreign things erronées that he not pouvait wheel learned that the Day bouche of ses parents , the ses colleagues or the ses fellow . 
after me perhaps remise of the choc initial and wheel began at make the foreign observations Act some of ses commentaires , I ai constaté that he fallait make series unity of what surveillance Act Act life of them aboriginal at the Canada and I me am implementation at the ouvrage . 
i crains not perhaps never venue at bout of them préjugés of what jeune man . 
i étais fascinée by the fact that he not guardian not born at the Canada . 
what guardian a immigrant . 
he guardian arrivé at the Canada at the age of two or three years . 
ses parents étaient instruits , well éduqués . 
his father guardian professor of mathématiques ; dapper mother enseignait at Act Faculty of art dentaire . 
what guardian of them people instruits . 
pourtant , what garçon Partnerships series opinion tellement raciste Act our aboriginal that what guardian troublant . 
i guess therefore that I cannot aurais not owed perhaps if étonnée when I ai been convoquée at the école of ma daughter Catherine when she guardian fell 6e year . 
by subsequently of series mauvaise experience that she Partnerships vécue fell 5e year , we avions decided to the envoyer streets series another école . 
plongée streets a nouveau milieu , Cathi not Tisserant not grandfather - something , what is - at - say until at the day where he rereads has strokes series discussion streets dapper class Act them aboriginal . 
transport élèves acclaimed fact of them commentaires négatifs . 
nouvelle streets unabated class , Cathi , at Act grande pride of dapper mother , has soudain déclaré that foreign élèves not savaient not well - whereupon he guardian question . 
she has reminded the fact that I étais retournée at the post after dapper birth and that I avais engagé series Crie of the north of the Alberta commentator gouvernante . 
what that Cathi savait of them aboriginal , she the Partnerships learned of Theresa . 
celle - ci him Partnerships enseigné what that he rereads Partnerships of meilleur streets dapper community . 
honourable senators , somewhat after wheel been élue at the Assembly legislative of the Manitoba , I am allée visiter the école of health bunch The Pas . 
Oscar Lathlin , who guardian Robbie Opposition and is now Minister at the Breast of the government ' s Manitoba , Partnerships transféré them élèves of health Division scolaire of Kelsey at The Pas yeas that they puissent perhaps éduqués streets the école of health contingency . 
he estimait that they not vivaient not streets their école the experience culturelle that they devaient vivre , that unabated école not pouvait not respond at their needs and he voulait that they reviennent chez eux , streets their milieu . 
Koppel . Lathlin me Partnerships invitée at visiter the école . 
i dois say that what that I there ai seen guardian enough remarkable . 
fell 1965 , business élèves apply ennuyaient , but streets unabated école autochtone where til enseignait them coutumes and health language aboriginal fell more of the rest of the program scolaire of health province , business élèves étaient pétillants and débordaient of enthusiasm . 
what guardian remarkable . 
transport élèves aboriginal acclaimed of elsewhere remporté Act majority of them price at the exposition scientifique of the north of the Manitoba . 
what guardian a événement remarkable . 
honourable senators , I ai seen the same phenomenon when I ai visited the école Children of Chairperson Earth at Winnipeg . 
what is perhaps - perhaps yeas confirms that I am series if ardente partisan of the self self yeas them aboriginal . 
i tiens at what principle because that I am convaincue that foreign aboriginal not pourront never make them progress that they devraient make activist that they not apply administreront not eux - mêmes , and we awakened Act responsibility to make fell sorte that they parviennent at unabated self self . 
honourable senators , what is a secret of polichinelle at the Senate ? and I know that number of between you familiar well them Affairs aboriginal - that he rereads has proportionnellement less of Aboriginal that the Unborn - native streets them établissements of post post . 
certes , the foreign progress acclaimed been réalisés . 
he rereads has now more of Aboriginal who are doctors , lawyers and dentistes . 
we awakened same health chance to compter Incidence we , streets unabated pièce , not least the five senators aboriginal who apportent all series importante contribution at our institution . 
but what is insuffisant . 
the other statistics révèlent that foreign Peoples aboriginal présentent the rate of mortalité the most élevé at the Canada , activist at Act birth , what who is tragic , that chez them young . 
these Late are attribuables at the foreign accidents , at the foreign incendies and perhaps what who is Act worse tragedy of toutes - at the foreign suicides , business young aboriginal présentant the rate of suicide the most élevé chez them young at the Canada . 
by elsewhere , nil of between you not apply surprendra of learn that , chez them aboriginal , the diabetes is endémique . 
a doctor has same comparé unabated illness at Act petite vérole or at Act rougeole , that we awakened Location with us fell activist that immigrants blancs Act what continent and who acclaimed entraîné Act death of a number record of victims . 
now , they meurent prématurément at cause of the diabetes instable . 
we savons that the diabetes can apply contrôler by series diète . 
til not affecte not enough to resources at Act lutte against the diabetes yeas that unabated illness not tue more them aboriginal at the Canada . 
nil of between you not apply surprendra non more of savoir that foreign aboriginal acclaimed still the rate of unemployment the most élevé . 
he not is not inhabituel that 90 per - Provincial aboriginal aptes at the work soient at the unemployment . 
he not is not inhabituel streets the north of the Manitoba that foreign children aient of them démêlés with Act justice because that , frankly , these children considèrent that he vaut better vivre at the centre of detention juvénile of Winnipeg that streets their own community autochtone . 
honourable senators , when the senator Gill has spoke of ses objectives and the ses aspirations , I cannot ai avoided me prevent the penser that we profiterons all énormément of dapper presence at the Senate . 
we fell profiterons all because that he we rappellera constamment , at the instar of them senators Watt , Chalifoux and Adams , business questions rose to them effects Act them aboriginal . 
transport aboriginal acclaimed the right to perhaps treaties commentator of them citizens at share entière of what country . 
what is therefore say that he tangibly their accorder them mêmes opportunities that at all levels other Canadians to bénéficier of care of health , the genus education and the one government ' quality . 
we attendons now since a certain number of years series response formelle at the report of health Commission Royal Act them Peoples aboriginal . 
we cannot awakened not received from response formelle . 
i prie composite of between you to exiger of the government at the power that he fournisse the most quickly possible series response formelle . 
honourable senators , at the surveillance of them dernières weeks , I ai suivi with interest Act visit to them Members streets Act province of British - British streets the framework of their study and the their assessment of the treaty nisga' has . 
the racism criant who , at mon notice , is unfortunately always présent streets our society apply is manifesté . 
bye mon grandfather regret , he is alimenté by a party politics that I considère détritivore . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the senator Carstairs : 
i gives at condolences colleagues aboriginal the EI that I them supports and that I them encourage streets Act poursuite of their lutte visant at make the foreign members of their Inuvialuit of véritables citizens Airports . 
the senator Kinsella : 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein : 
honourable senators , the speech of the senator Carstairs is irrésistible . 
he remembered can that we soyons fell train of create the most grands problems yeas the future . 
i am sensible at Act question Act laquelle he remembered is prononcé . 
series another something me agace streets the speech of the senator Carstairs . 
the report of health commission Royal renfermait of them observations probantes regarding the Late of children , business problems révoltants streets the field of the education and Oceans problems of Order mental and émotif quasi impossibles at régler . 
why the government not has he not yet réagi with vigueur appeared these problems ? 
is - what only series question of money or tangibly - he rereads see another something ? 
the senator Carstairs : 
senator Grafstein , I cannot think not that what authorized sideshow series question of money . 
i believe that he rereads has là a lack of volonté policy . 
what lack of volonté policy paving perdurer because that he not there has not enough to Canadians non aboriginal of all levels horizons who faces are montrés loans at defend Act cause of our peoples aboriginal . 
the senator Grafstein : 
the Honourable Senator Chalifoux is here . 
she and moi we ourselves impotent penchés Act the file of them without - abri of Toronto . 
she has cherché also actively that moi at convince the government ' apply attaquer at the problem of them without - abri . 
we analyzed enchantés that til ait chargé series Minister of coordonner bearer effort . 
she has done a magnificent work streets everything the country . 
the most , we espérons , streets the sillage of the speech of the Trône , power convince the cabinet of agir quickly and énergiquement . 
telles are our expectations . 
confirms étant said , fell examinant the file of them without - abri of Toronto , I me am heurté at a very curieux problem . 
fell vertu of health Constitution of the Canada - I cannot know not if what is the article 91 or 92 - , what is the Government government that relèvent them Indiens and Oceans Lands Indian . 
gold , I ai been étonné of constater that , nonobstant Act Constitution , business departments not assumaient not their obligations Constitutional at the hook of them Indiens who vivent at the outside of them reserves . 
the where the sérieux problem auquel we analyzed confrontés at Toronto , là where series grande majority of them without - abri are the foreign aboriginal who vivent hors of them reserves , at the outside of them Lands Indian . 
gold , the government not has aucunement réagi opposite at unabated lacune fell what who pertains the obligation introductory by Act Constitution . 
Robbie , who is responsible ? 
i request at the senator , who complements of make a very sage speech , if she has exploré unabated lacune fell matière of responsibility and if we , the unabated House , pouvons make something something yeas remédier at unabated irresponsabilité BNA . 
the senator Carstairs : 
honourable senators , I voudrais say at the Honourable Senator that what problem constitutional not apply is posé that streets the case of them without - abri , but that I me am battue streets ma riding yeas series question similaire who pertains them care of health yeas them children aboriginal . 
when a child is déplacé of series community autochtone and transféré streets a service yeas children of a centre of them Science of health health , all levels care prodigués at bearer child are at Act charge of the government federal because that he remembered notional of a child vivant streets series community autochtone who relève therefore the Day responsibility fédérale . 
however , yeas of them reasons that I cannot comprends not , health province of the Manitoba , is responsible for them services of care at domicile . 
by subsequently of series querelle of jurisdiction between the minister dd of health Health and his homologue federal , these children aboriginal restent often at the hospital because that , series once that they retournent streets their community , nil service of care not their is assuré . 
transport taxpayers Airports paient therefore more yeas that these children soient soignés at the hospital . 
what who is more important , these children are séparés of their family and the their community and not arresting not maximiser their chances of guérison fell étant auprès of them êtres who them aiment and apply fell occupent the better . 
i aurais well voulu wheel series solution at propose at the senator . 
everyone what that I puis him say is that we devons heed much of other debates commentator gerrymandering amorcé by the senator Gill , fell espérant that the another place apply there intéresse . 
the Honourable Sheila Finestone : 
honourable senators , bearer Exchange and the interesting exposé of the senator Carstairs me acclaimed fact penser at the bill to Bill C - 31 , that I ai strokes the déplaisir of shepherding at Act House of them Commons at the beginning of them years 80 . 
bye the époque , we examinions Act question of them rights of them women nées fell tribu . 
bye Act end , he remembered agissait of allegiances end at series aberration by laquelle a autochtone who prenait yeas wife series non - autochtone pouvait transmettre at ses children them rights acquis at dapper birth and other rights whose he pouvait apply prévaloir , Robbie that if health soeur of bearer man venait at épouser a non - autochtone , she perdait all ses rights tribaux , all ses rights at Act earth analyzed that his right to vivre streets Act contingency . 
she never pouvait nothing transmettre of his heritage ancestral at dapper descendance of second or the third generation . 
what Bill of Bill capitalists permettre at them women of rentrer Act them Lands réservées at them aboriginal , their territory ancestral , and the jouir of all levels rights and privileges accorded at their brothers , oncles and Fathers . 
unfortunately , he not there has not been prévu suffisamment of funds yeas financer Act construction of maisons or the schools yeas permettre at them children and at them families streets unabated situation of apply integrate fully streets their companies respective . 
he is malheureux that we cannot ayons not construit the kind of facilities which palatable respond at them needs of these families fell matière of housing or fournir of them schools yeas recevoir these children , what who has mené at a dysfonctionnement Housing at the instead of facilitate Act life of these women and the their family . 
Mrs. the senator could - she we propose series way quelconque who we permettrait at us , at the Senate , and at our colleagues aboriginal of exercer series certaine pression Act the another place , yeas adhere them commitments , constitutionnels or non , who représentent of them values fondamentales streets Act society canadienne yeas that we puissions all perhaps gathered fell a odyssey Inuvialuit ? 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
honourable senators , health period prévue yeas what debate is terminée . 
you plaît - he ' health prolonger yeas permettre at Mrs. the senator Carstairs of respond ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Carstairs : 
honourable senators , the senator Finestone has specifically asked what that our house pouvait make . 
i believe that we awakened two choice . 
everyone of thanking , we pouvons wheel Points at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Peoples aboriginal . 
what is the committee which is chargé of And , and who has examined what kind of question . 
however , he arrive sometimes that he authorized necessary to pousser a little our committees . 
i believe that what that the committee apprécierait without doubt , and what fut the case by the past , what serait the tabling of series motion at the Senate soulignant our desire to see the committee of them Peoples aboriginal entreprendre series certaine study . 
the senator Finestone : 
that unabated motion authorized Proposed . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Carstairs , the debate is adjourned . ) 
routine legal and Constitutional 
Authorized at the committee of retenir of them services 
the Honourable Lorna Milne , pursuant at the notice du24 November 1999 , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional authorized habilité at retenir them services of advisors , techniciens , employees of office or other elements nécessaires yeas examiner of them bills of Bill , health seams of bills of Bill and Oceans forecasts budgétaires who him acclaimed been déférées . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
Authorized at the committee at diffuser ses deliberations by foreign media of information électroniques 
the Honourable Lorna Milne , pursuant at the notice du24 November 1999 , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional authorized authorized at permettre Act diffusion of ses deliberations translated by foreign media of information électroniques , the manner at bother the least possible ses travaux . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
Authorized at the committee of sit fell same time that the Senate 
the Honourable Marjory LeBreton , at the name of the senator Kirby , pursuant at the notice of the 24 November 1999 , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology authorized authorized at sit during Senators sittings of the Senate to the Monday 29 November , the Government Tuesday 30 November and the Government Wednesday 1er December 1999 , and that the application of the paragraph 95 ( 4 ) the Government Rules authorized suspendue at bearer regard . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , health motion which we is présentée fate a little of the ordinaire fell what sense that aucune hour not is précisée . 
i comprends that Tuesday approach and that we cannot aurons not the opportunity to examiner Act question before , but I query at the least savoir at breaching moment the committee souhaite apply Camera . 
i pose Act question because that the usage voudrait that the committee seat at series hour donnée , even if the Senate siégeait still at what moment - là . 
health motion not said nothing at what topic . 
the senator LeBreton : 
yeas Monday , what not is not a problem . 
Monday , we siégerons at 1:30 hours . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
( the Senate apply ajourne at the Tuesday 30 November 1999 , at 14 hours . ) 
debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
2e Session , Session Session , 
volume 138 , Issue 13 
the Tuesday 30 November 1999 
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker 
table of them Contents 
STATEMENTS STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
transport rights of the man 
the vent tourne 
the Hôpital Montfort of Ottawa 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
depository of the Prime report of the committee 
health Act Act the casier judicial 
bill to Bill Amend - Rapport of the committee 
the adjournment 
bibliothèque of the Parliament 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee Joint Standing at sit fell same time that the Senate 
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe 
the Organization yeas Act security and health cooperation fell Europe ? Position eighth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary tenue at Saint - Pétersbourg , fell Russia - ô of the report of ladélégation canadienne 
the Organization yeas Act security and health cooperation fell Europe ? Position eighth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary tenue at Saint - Pétersbourg , fell Russia - Notice of inquiry 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
transport transport 
v. of them operations of health company aérienne Inter - Quebecer 
the v. of them operations of Inter - Quebecer - Possibility possibility of a review by the committee of them transport and the foreign Communications 
the v. of them operations of health company aérienne Inter - Quebecer - Possibility possibility of series assistance self 
transport Affairs Intergovernmental 
the Quebec - Comments conditions éventuelles of a referendum - Ex role of the Senate 
transport transport 
the v. of them operations of health company aérienne Inter - Quebecer - Possibility response to the government 
the v. of them operations of health company aérienne Inter - Quebecer - Ex effect Act them small communities 
the Heritage 
health possibility of a retard streets Act construction of the nouveau Museum of health War 
the funding for the nouveau Museum of health War 
Élections Canada 
the Manitoba - Possibility loss of data confidentielles 
the transfer of them data personnelles - Ex principle of the consent 
the Manitoba - Possibility loss of data confidentielles - Comments procedures of security regarding Casual data personnelles 
transport fisheries and Oceans océans 
transport provinces Maritimes - Possibility decision to health Court Supreme confirmant them rights of fishery of them aboriginal - Comments fund destinés at the achat of licences yeas them aboriginal 
answers delayed at the foreign questions Oral 
the Solicitor General 
the Correctional Heritage of the Intelligence of security - Possibility loss of documents classifiés - Ex review of the committee of monitoring of them activities of the Intelligence of security 
the trade international 
the Agreement - free - Exchange north - validate - Ex procès intenté by series society californienne fell consequential of health loss of a contract of achat of water fell vrac - Possibility Position of the government 
the ORDRE OF THE 
the speech of the Trône 
motion of adresse fell response - Continued of the debate 
privileges , Rules and procedures 
passage of the second report of the committee 
third report of the committee - Stands of the debate 
the SENATE 
the Tuesday 30 November 1999 
health postponement is ouverte at 14 hours , the Speaker étant at the fauteuil . 
prayers . 
transport rights of the man 
the vent tourne 
the Honourable Calvin Woodrow Ruck : 
bye the beginning of health War , a grandfather number of agents of health RCMP acclaimed , seems he , decided to troquer the uniforme of health police montée against gerrymandering of them forces Armed . 
they apply are engagés streets the army of earth , health Shipping and the army of the air . 
transport rangs of health Mounted Royal Canadian the Canada apply are trouvés considérablement dégarnis . 
the Officer of health RCMP responsible for the détachement of Sydney has past series announcement streets them quotidiens premises yeas recruter of them young physiquement aptes streets them rangs of what corps of police . 
these two young Noirs étaient of the number of ceux who souhaitaient apply enrôler . 
the Officer fell station at Sydney not savait not whereupon make the these two young Noirs . 
bye the époque , nil Noir not Partnerships never joint them rangs of health RCMP - Request the least not at the Cape - Cape . 
bearer Officer apply is overburdened fell report with the quartier General of health Division H at Halifax yeas ask the foreign instructions Act Act way of régler the problem posé by these two young Noirs . 
transport members of the détachement of Halifax , not sachant not too eux non more what that he convenait of make , run are at their tour overburdened fell report with the quartier General streets our belle Capital fédérale , Ottawa . 
i cannot me remind more apply they apply are qualifiés or not . 
always is - he that anguishes the one anguishes the another not has never done part of health RCMP . 
by Act subsequently , health rumeur apply is répandue according laquelle Act RCMP recrutait at the Breast of health community noire . 
the other persons acclaimed voulu propose their candidature , but thin not acclaimed not strokes of luck non more . 
the Officer responsible at Ottawa has avisé the responsible at Halifax of laisser these candidates apply introduce at the examination , ajoutant that they not the réussiraient can - perhaps not . 
he seems solemn that they not the aient not succeeded because that anguishes the one anguishes the another of these two men not has never porté Act tunique red . 
what is series good indication of what who faces passait at the époque . 
the change apply is amorcé fell Nova Scotia Nova and , I believe , elsewhere at the Canada . 
he rereads has now a grandfather number of Noirs streets them rangs of health RCMP and I believe understand that they Cutbacks of the bon work . 
they apply acquittent of their duties , and what , at the name of health justice and the Government equity yeas all . 
we voyons these changes apply produire and what is very encourageant yeas them members of our collectivité . 
our young men arresting now aspirer at the nombreux positions yeas lesquels , during the foreign years , til estimait that they not réunissaient not them qualities exigées . 
everyone confirms has changed . 
bon number of our young men and women acclaimed fact of them studies academic , laughed obtenu their diploma fell right and acclaimed ensuite opened a cabinet of lawyers . 
w ( 1410 ) 
the Ombudsman of health Nova Scotia Nova is a jeune Noir and he remembered trouve that what is mon son , Douglas Ruck . 
bye ma knowledge , he has been the Prime Noir of health Nova Scotia Nova at recevoir a tel honour . 
he is venu here , at Ottawa , yeas parler of the éventualité of create a body attain of what kind . 
he has passablement voyagé . 
the vent of the change souffle Act Act Nova Scotia Nova fell what who pertains the admissibilité and the estimated of autrui . 
til can make the work pourvu that foreign resources nécessaires soient mises at our provision and pourvu that we soyons treaties commentator them other . 
what is analyzed that ça apply proceeded . 
he rereads has the grandes improvements . 
bon number of our young , daughters and garçons , submariners at the university and finissent by décrocher of bons jobs . 
voilà fell gros where we fell impotent . 
we continuons of Ethics at them young of not not abandonner their studies , the run instruire and the contributing at the development of their province and the their countries . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the Hôpital Montfort of Ottawa 
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier : 
honourable senators , health journée of the 29 November 1999 is series date at inscrire streets the history of the Canada . 
three judges of health Court divisionnaire of the Ontario acclaimed rendu series decision unanimous fell favour of the maintien of the Hôpital Montfort . 
these judges acclaimed statué that royal Commission of restructuring of them services of health of the government ' s Ontario Partnerships acted illégalement fell décrétant Act closure of bearer Hospital , the odyssey Hospital universitaire francophone fell Ontario . 
transport Canadians French - Government Ontario apply réjouissent of unabated decision , but demeurent anxieux opposite at Act reaction of the government ontarien , who faces is contenté of Refer Act balle at Act commission of restructuring fell mentionnant that what is at she at régler what file . 
unabated same commission apply is empressée , yesterday , the respond that his odyssey mandate guardian of restructurer them services of health fell Ontario . 
we analyzed streets series situation something little difficult . 
health issue which apply pose is the savoir who fingertips the courage and the integrity yeas mood at them mood . 
transport courts acclaimed tranché , what is at the tour of the government ' agir . 
finalement , I thank the Government fond of the c9ur all levels stakeholders who acclaimed invested time and money afin that foreign francophones of the Ontario puissent finally obtain justice . 
the senator Prud man : 
hear ! 
the Honourable Marie - P . 
honourable senators , commentator the Tisserant if well the senator Gauthier , November 1999 passera streets the history of the Canada commentator a moment historic . 
yesterday , health Court divisionaire of the Ontario has rose gain the cause at the Hôpital Montfort . 
health cour has affirmé that royal decision to health Commission of restructuring of them services of health of the Ontario ' reduce them services at the Hôpital Montfort bafouait the principle same of protection and the respect to them rights of them minorities , principle defended by Act Constitution canadienne . 
health cour has therefore annulé them directives of health commission . 
what morning , the quotidien Le Droit écrivait that Ms Gisèle Lalonde , patron of SOS Monfort , qualifiait the judgment of health later grande victory never acquise by Act francophonie ontarienne and even canadienne . 
honourable senators , health patron of SOS Monfort , Ms Lalonde , health patron of the council of directors of the hospital , Ms Michelle of Courville - Nicol , the Association canadienne Speaking of the Ontario , the Honourable Senator Jean - Robert Gauthier , analyzed that all ceux and celles who acclaimed collaboré and milité yeas sauver the unique centre hospitalier of language Speaking fell Ontario , deserve our sincères congratulations . 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
depository of the Prime report of the committee 
the Honourable Michael Kirby , President of the committee sénatorial permanente of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology , dépose the Prime report of the committee pursuant at the article 104 of the rules . 
( the text of the report consigned at them Journals of the Senate to today today . ) 
health Act Act the casier judicial 
bill to Bill Amend - Rapport of the committee 
the Honourable Lorna Milne , patron of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional , présente the report suivant : 
the MARDI 30 November 1999 
the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional has the honour to introduce his 
DEUXIÈME REPORT 
your Comité , auquel has been déféré the Chapter of Bill C - 7 , Act amend Act Act Act the casier judicial and series another act fell consequential , has , pursuant at the Order of referred to the Wednesday 17 November 1999 , examined ledit bill to Bill and fell fact now report with them amendments suivants : 
page 2 at 4 , at the article 6 : 
has ) substitute Act line 40 , page 2 , by what who suit : 
" 6.3 ( 1 ) Changes définitions who suivent apply appliquent at the présent section . 
" child " Personne âgée of less of ten - eight years . 
" person vulnérable " Personne who , fell reason for his age , the genus déficience or the other circumstances temporary or permanentes : 
has ) authorized is fell Position of dépendance by report at the other persons ; 
b ) authorized court a risk of abus or the agression more élevé that royal population fell General of health share of series human fell Position of autorité or the confidence by report at she . 
( 2 ) Le Commissioner doit inclure streets the " ; 
b ) substitute , streets Act version Speaking , health line 43 , page 2 , by what who suit : 
" Royal Canadian the Canada series indication permettant " ; 
c ) substitute them lines 3 and 4 , page 3 , by what who suit : 
" Nation yeas series offence sexual boot at the Printed at the hook of laquelle he wouldn has been octroyé " ; 
d ) add , after Act line 5 , page 4 , what who suit : 
" ( 9 ) Le gouverneur fell council can , by décret , modify the Printed yeas there add or fell retrancher series offence sexual . " ; 
e ) changer Act désignation numérique of subsection , analyzed that the introductory of them renvois , who fell découlent . 
has ) supprimer of them lines 10 and 11 , page 5 ; 
b ) supprimer of them lines 16 at 18 , page 5 ; 
c ) changer Act désignation alphabétique of them alinéas , analyzed that the introductory of them renvois , who fell découlent . 
3 . Page 5 : add after Act line 33 , page 5 , what who suit : 
4 . Page 6 : add , after Act line 3 , page 6 , what who suit : 
" Printed 
( Article 8.1 ) 
Printed 
( paragraphes 6.3 ( 1 ) and ( 9 ) ( 
1 . 
transport offences at them provisions suivantes of the Code criminal : 
has ) : paragraph 7 ) 4.1 ) 
( offences of Order sexuel impliquant them children at the abroad , by Action or omission ) ; 
b ) : section 151 ( contacts sexuels - child of less of 14 years ) ; 
c ) : section 152 ( incitation at the foreign contacts sexuels - child of less of 14 years ) ; 
d ) : section 153 ( human fell situation of autorité by report at series human âgée of at the least 14 years , but the least the 18 years ) ; 
e ) : section 153.1 ( human fell situation of autorité by report at series human rose series déficience ) ; 
f ) : section 155 ( inceste ) ; 
g ) : section 159 ( relations sexuelles anales ) ; 
1:30 ) : paragraph 160 ( 3 ) ( bestialité fell presence of a child âgé of less of 14 years , or incitation of a child of less of 14 years at commettre Act bestialité ) ; 
i ) : alinéa 163 ( 1 ) has ) ( corruption of moeurs ) ; 
j ) : alinéa 163 ( 2 ) has ) ( corruption of moeurs ) ; 
k ) : section 163.1 ( pornographie juvénile ) ; 
l ) : section 168 ( implementation at Act station of things obscènes ) ; 
Koppel ) : section 170 ( father , mother or tuteur who sert of entremetteur ) ; 
n ) : section 171 ( maître of maison who allows the foreign mood sexuels interdits ) ; 
o ) : section 172 ( corruption of children ) ; 
p ) : section 173 ( actions indécentes ) ; 
q ) : paragraph 212 ( 2 ) ( vivre of them products of health prostitution of series human âgée of less of 18 years ) ; 
Q ) : paragraph 212 ( 2.1 ) 
( vivre of them products of health prostitution of series human âgée of less of 18 years ) ; 
Maclean ) : paragraph 212 ( 4 ) ( obtention or tentative of obtention of them services sexuels of series human âgée of less of 18 years ) ; 
t ) : section 271 ( agression sexual ) ; 
u ) : paragraph 272 ( 1 ) and the alinéa 272 ( 2 ) has ) ( agression sexual with series weapon at gun ) ; 
v ) : paragraph 272 ( 1 ) and the alinéa 272 ( 2 ) b ) ( agression sexual without weapon at gun ) ; 
w ( the article 273 ( agression sexual grave ) ; 
there ) : alinéa 273.3 ( 1 ) 
z ) : alinéa 273.3 ( 1 ) 
z .6 ) 
the article 463 fell what who has trait at Act tentative of commettre series offence boot at Act présente Printed or at Act complicité , after the fact , the Day perpétration of series telle offence . 
has ) : paragraph 146,594 ( 1 ) ( reports sexuels with series human of the sexe féminin âgée of less of 14 years ) ; 
b ) : paragraph 146,594 ( 2 ) ( reports sexuels with series human of the sexe féminin âgée of 14 years or more but the least the 16 years ) ; 
c ) : section 151 ( séduction of series human of the sexe féminin âgée of 16 years or more but the least the 18 years ) ; 
d ) : section 153 ( reports sexuels with dapper belle - daughter , and cetera , or her employée ) ; 
e ) : section 155 ( sodomie or bestialité ) ; 
f ) : section 157 ( mood of grossière indécence ) ; 
g ) : section 166 ( father , mother or tuteur who cause the déflorement ) ; 
1:30 ) : section 167 ( maître of maison who allows the déflorement ) . 
has ) : section 144 ( rape ) ; 
b ) : section 145 ( tentative of rape ) ; 
c ) : section 149 ( attentat at Act pudeur of series human of the sexe féminin ) ; 
d ) : section 156 ( attentat at Act pudeur of series human of the sexe masculin ) ; 
e ) : section 245 ( voies of fact simples ) ; 
f ) : paragraph 246 ( 1 ) ( voies of fact with intention of commettre a acte criminal ) " 
respectfully submitted , 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when étudierons - we what report ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Milne , the study of the report is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement . ) 
the adjournment 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the article 58 ( 1 ) 1:30 ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that , when the Senate apply adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until at tomorrow , the Wednesday 1er December 1999 , at 1:30 1:30 30 . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
bibliothèque of the Parliament 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee Joint Standing at sit fell same time that the Senate 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that tomorrow , the mercredi1er December 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Comité Joint Standing of health Library of the Parliament authorized authorized at sit during Senators sittings and Oceans ajournements of the Senate ; and 
that a message authorized Message at Act House of them Commons yeas the fell inform . 
[ later later ] 
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe 
the Organization yeas Act security and health cooperation fell Europe ? Position eighth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary tenue at Saint - Pétersbourg , fell Russia - ô of the report of ladélégation canadienne 
leave rose been granted to revert at the tabling of them reports of delegations Delegations : 
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to déposer , streets them two languages Languages , the report of health delegation canadienne of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe , who has représenté the Canada at Act eighth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization yeas Act security and health cooperation fell Europe , tenue at Saint - Pétersbourg , fell Russia , the Government 6 at the 12 July 1999 . 
the Organization yeas Act security and health cooperation fell Europe ? Position eighth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary tenue at Saint - Pétersbourg , fell Russia - Notice of inquiry 
leave rose been granted to revert at them notice of inquiry : 
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that , Thursday next , the 2,500 December 1999 , I attirerai the attention of the Senate Act the report of health delegation canadienne of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe , who has représenté the Canada at Act eighth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization yeas Act security and health cooperation fell Europe , tenue at Saint - Pétersbourg , fell Russia , the Government 6 au12 July 1999 . 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
transport transport 
v. of them operations of health company aérienne Inter - Quebecer 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
i am course that the minister , who complements also the Government Canada Atlantic , has commitments particulars of the fact that the one of them carriers aériens of our region not is more fell SOWIND these days ? ci . 
confirms has a impact direct non only Act them aéroports of health region , but also Act a important segment of them workers . 
w ( 1420 ) 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , unfortunately , I cannot ai not strokes the opportunity to lire anguishes of hear Act statement introductory by the chairman of Inter - Quebecer . 
i believe understand that Inter - Quebecer continues to wheel of them pourparlers with ses summarizing partners , what is - at - say ses employees , NAV CANADA , Quebecer and the other créanciers . 
the but is the résoudre some problems and the ensure Act poursuite of them services . 
til me said also that the service aérien is maintenu at toutes them destinations desservies by Inter - Quebecer at share three gloomy where the other solutions are disponibles . 
confirms shows well Act period of uncertainty streets laquelle is plongé the sector of the transportation aérien . 
confirms met still more the accent Act them principles énoncés by the minister of them Transport at Act House of them Commons and publicly . 
i vais repeat these principles here yeas Act gouverne of them honourable senators . 
health statement of principles émise by the minister énumérait clearly them five objectives of health policy Public of the government , what is - at - say Act protection of them consumers against foreign price excessifs ; the maintien of them services at them small communities , what who preoccupation particularly the Honourable Senator ; Act protection of them rights and Oceans concerns of them employees ; the maintien of health competition streets Act measure of the possible ; the control Heritage streets them facts . 
these objectives demeurent ceux of the government . 
the v. of them operations of Inter - Quebecer - Possibility possibility of a review by the committee of them transport and the foreign Communications 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I thank the minister of dapper response . 
i remarque that he has repris streets dapper response Act statement streets laquelle the minister of them Transport has énoncé these five principles yeas Act first once at Saint John , at the Brunswick - Brunswick , at Act end of the summer or at the beginning of the fall . 
the minister of them Transport has répété these principles when he has témoigné appeared the committee sénatorial Standing of them transport and the foreign Communications and when he has comparu appeared the committee Standing of them transport of health House of Commons . 
confirms seems perhaps Act pierre angulaire of health response to the government at the problem of Inter - Quebecer , who is well réel . 
the 13 August , Robbie that the problem cannot guardian that appréhendé , the government has invoqué the power extraordinary prévu at the article 47 of health Act Act them transport . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I reconnais Act préoccupation implicite streets Act question of the Honourable Senator . 
however , he should rather adresser dapper question at Act patron of the committee . 
i cannot voudrais not usurper the autorité of the committee fell Act matière . 
the senator Kinsella : 
honourable senators , I voulais adresser ma question at Act patron of the committee . 
fell effect , by courtesy , I ai essayé of health join , but til me has said that she never serait not fell city of blunt Act week . 
the Canada Atlantic and the other gloomy of the is the Government Canada familiar series discontinuance of them services aériens regional . 
what is a fact . 
what not is not series situation abstraite that appréhendait the government when he has invoqué the article 47 . 
the décret has been renvoyé at the committee . 
i ai attended at certaines of them meetings of the committee when he has examiné them five principles énoncés by the minister . 
gerrymandering - ci not think he not that certaines measures devraient perhaps prises afin that our committee of them transport puisse apply Camera unabated week ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I know that the minister is very conscient of health situation . 
fell fact , he continues to health suivre of close . 
we pensons that he not there fingertips aucune perturbation importante of health Liaison with them towns desservies by Inter - Quebecer . 
bye some gloomy , unfortunately , the discontinuance of the service by Inter - Quebecer not fingertips nil impact réel , commentator what is the case at Sydney where everybody service Partnerships already been retiré before what day . 
health issue of the Honourable Senator is importante . 
the minister continues to surveiller Act situation . 
i transmettrai certainly them concerns of the Honourable Senator at the minister and , at Act first opportunity , at Act patron of the committee . 
i me sense very evil at the aise of say that a committee sénatorial should apply Camera otherwise that by subsequently of health decision to the committee and the dapper patron . 
the v. of them operations of health company aérienne Inter - Quebecer - Possibility possibility of series assistance self 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
ma question has trait at Act situation of health society Inter - Quebecer , the transporteur régional independent the most important at the Canada . 
commentator the senator Kinsella : has said , what transporteur aérien régional dessert them people of health region of the Atlantic . 
since three days , however , the foreign hundreds and the foreign hundreds of travellers acclaimed seen their bills gravement perturbés by the discontinuance of them services and the maintien at the soil of them avions of unabated company . 
unabated dernière avoue she - even travailler at a plan to survival . 
Étant rose that dapper survival depends notamment of the octroi immédiat of series assistance to 15 million for $ , that is - what that the government ' s Canada is loan at make yeas the help at respond currently at ses needs financiers pressants ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , the government ' s Canada is loan at make fell sorte that nil centre not authorized shirts without service . 
autant that I sache , he not there has not yeas the moment of centre where he not existe not to service of rechange . 
the minister has said that he allait suivre Act situation . 
he is surely fell communication with them responsables of Inter - Quebecer . 
what that he is prudent of make yeas the moment , the Government Notices of the government , what is the continue at surveiller Act situation and veiller at what that a service of rechange authorized disposable . 
the senator Oliver : 
honourable senators , the Honourable Minister has said that autant that he sache , he not there has nil centre streets Act region of the Atlantic who authorized without service . 
gold , business services acclaimed been gravement perturbés . 
much of people acclaimed seen their bills of trip retardés and acclaimed been incommodés because that the service has been interrompu and that foreign avions acclaimed been cloués at the soil . 
streets dapper response at the senator Kinsella , the Leader of the government has said that he rereads Partnerships of other possibilities . 
what not is certes not series solution permanente . 
the minister aurait - he the obligeance of us say damned measure permanente the government prendra yeas that Inter - Quebecer reprenne ses vols soon , with a plan Standing ? 
by the past , the government has helped , financièrement and otherwise , business Lignes strikes Quebecer . 
that paving he make yeas a transporteur who dessert Act region of the Atlantic ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
what is Act question Act more importante who preoccupation the minister of them Transport and the government . 
health solution permanente doit heed account the foreign objectives of political that I ai énoncés he rereads has little of time . 
health solution permanente fera she series place at Inter - Quebecer or at a another transporteur , we cannot pouvons the say yeas the instant . 
fell attendant , we devons veiller at what that foreign towns not soient not privées of services . 
autant that I sache , thin acclaimed of them services fell what moment . 
he rereads has series solution to rechange streets toutes them towns . 
transport Affairs Intergovernmental 
the Quebec - Comments conditions éventuelles of a referendum - Ex role of the Senate 
the Honourable Douglas Roche : 
honourable senators , I ai series question at poser at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
commentator them sondages the montrent , series damned majority of them Canadians to the West supports Act Position ferme that the Prime Minister has adoptée at the hook of them sovereignists of the Quebec . 
even if the government deM. Bouchard accepte Act trêve of four years that has Proposed the Prime Minister , confirms not excludes not Act necessity of continue to poser them guarding political and Constitutional yeas make opposite at everything referendum at the future . 
w ( 1430 ) 
commentator the Prime Minister has overburdened unabated question Act the tapis , the Leader of the government estimated he that the Senate has a role at play yeas contributing to fashion importante at favoriser series discussion calme and réfléchie Act the future of a Canada uni ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , everything Senator has certes Act possibility of raise unabated question at the Senate . 
the blunt évidence , she preoccupation vivement all levels senators . 
i me attends well at what that foreign opinions of them senators soient prises fell considération streets toutes them discussions Act them questions that has soulevées the senator . 
the Prime Minister not has not yet said how he could decide to aborder the important topic of health clarté of health issue and the Day majority . 
i am course that foreign senators auront series opportunity to express their standpoint of standpoint Act these issues very importantes . 
transport transport 
the v. of them operations of health company aérienne Inter - Quebecer - Possibility response to the government 
the Honourable Ethel Cochrane : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
he rereads has three days , the chairman of health company aérienne Inter - Quebecer has written series letter at the minister of them Transport . 
fell Seneca a extrait : 
health présente VI at you inform that royal company Inter - Quebecer apply trouve finalement streets the état Tisserant whose we you awakened prévenu openly during the foreign months . 
since the summer , when has been soulevée yeas Act first once Act question of health prise of the control of Air Canada by Act society Onex , the attention of the government apply is concentrée Act the future of them two grandes compagnies strikes . 
why , at the surveillance of what process , the government has he fact fi of them concerns of them compagnies strikes régionales and the their passagers ? 
why confirms not the has he not inquiété when the chairman of health company Inter - Quebecer has prévenu the minister of them Transport , he rereads has several months , that what process of merger of them grandes compagnies strikes aurait of sérieuses consequences yeas them carriers regional and their passagers ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , health Benefit - Government service at all levels Canadians began always been at the centre of them concerns of the minister of them Transport and the Government government , and she the restera . 
health manner whose she could changer the fate particular the one transporteur at a moment rose is series another question . 
but he remains that , according series caractéristique fondamentale of health policy self , he particulars maintain the service streets toutes them regions Forces , there including streets them small communities that dessert Inter - Quebecer . 
i cannot dispel 209 them opinions or telecommunications actions of the chairman of unabated company . 
however , I dispel formuler of them commentaires Act Act Position of the government and I believe that the principle of the service at them small communities restera at the heart of health policy self . 
the v. of them operations of health company aérienne Inter - Quebecer - Ex effect Act them small communities 
the Honourable Ethel Cochrane : 
since both days , til craint that he rereads ait of them losses of jobs considérables chez Inter - Quebecer . 
the number of them losses of employment dépasserait widely them 800 or 900 employees of unabated company aérienne . 
he tangibly compter them nombreux workers who are affectés at the maintenance of them appareils streets them aéroports desservis by Inter - Quebecer . 
their jobs are also menacés . 
by example , I know that blocks Sunday , authorized before - night , the foreign members of the staff at the soil acclaimed been overburdened at foot at the airport of Stephenville close to chez moi , at Newfoundland - Newfoundland . 
i observance also that he not there Partnerships not to service at compter of midnight Saturday night between the airport of Stephenville , at Newfoundland - Newfoundland , and health earth ferme at the Canada . 
the government has he pensé at the effect of domino who faces produirait and at them graves repercussions that he could there wheel Act them small communities of the Canada Atlantic , the Government Quebec and the elsewhere ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
fell what who pertains the service at Stephenville , the Honourable Senator mentionne that he not there Partnerships not to service aérien at Stephenville , that what authorized by the intermédiaire of Air Canada or the Air Nova . 
the senator Cochrane : 
what is exact . 
the senator Boudreau : 
confirms not correspond not at them information that I ai here . 
however , I vais transmettre unabated information at the minister and him ask the foreign information more détaillés at bearer regard . 
the senator Kinsella : 
veuillez Auditing also Act situation streets the north - is the Government Brunswick - Brunswick . 
the Heritage 
health possibility of a retard streets Act construction of the nouveau Museum of health War 
the Honourable Norman K . Atkins : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate and pertains the Museum Heritage of health War . 
the Honourable Barnie Danson , President of the Museum of health War , former veteran , member of the Council private and former minister of health Défense , has dépensé much of energy afin of persuade the government ' envisager Act possibility of financer Act construction of a nouveau Museum of health War . 
if you you rendez at the musée or at Act maison Vimy , who regorgent all sides of activity , you constaterez at breaching standpoint they acclaimed need to a nouveau musée . 
til has shirts hear that gerrymandering - là serait construit at Rockcliffe , nearly of the Museum attain of the aviation . 
the government envisage he seriously Act possibility of appuyer the établissement of a nouveau musée or not done - he that apporter series response superficielle at unabated question ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , the government envisage seriously Act possibility of accorder a tel appui . 
the fact , the government apply is engagé at allegiances at Act provision of the musée the terrain of 20 acres situé at Rockcliffe . 
bye the incorrigible of the Evolution of the bill , the foreign fund additional emigrate provenir of various sources , there including the Government sector private . 
the government continuera of Welfare part at what Bill , and I widow souligner of nouveau that he remembered is engagé at fournir the Location necessary . 
the senator Atkins : 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I cannot am not at the courant of something decision that what authorized to allegiances the bill fell veilleuse . 
i ai fourni at them honourable senators them more récents information whose I dispose . 
til cherche at determine the foreign sources of funding at the Breast of the government and a apport Monetary of the sector private serait manifestement necessary . 
i vais me renseigner , but I cannot know nothing to what that avance the senator Atkins . 
the senator Atkins : 
the minister could perhaps - perhaps confirm what that I avance . 
according to other rumeurs , Rand Danson is whether contrarié that he is loan at démissionner of the Museum Heritage of health War fell reason for health Position adoptée by the government . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I dois say to nouveau that I cannot ai not to information at what topic . 
i ferai certes share of them concerns of the Honourable Senator at the minister . 
the funding for the nouveau Museum of health War 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
is - he true that the government not affectera of them fund at a nouveau Museum of health War that if the sector private commits the foreign fund ? 
damned could well perhaps Act justification of series telle policy ? 
w ( 1440 ) 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I believe understand that he rereads aurait a financing private , quoique the amount exact not authorized not certain . 
i believe understand that he rereads aurait also a Appeal of funds Woodlot . 
the senator Murray : 
the minister doit savoir that he existe of other musées nationaux , by example the Museum of health civilization , the Museum of them beaux - Arts of the Canada , and cetera . 
the minister connaît - he ' other cases where the funding federal yeas Act construction and the functioning of reassess musées has been accordé at condition that the foreign fund Woodlot soient of thanking recueillis ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I organize certainly the foreign case of funding Joint comprenant of them fund - Government government federal and the Government sector private yeas Act réalisation of bills valables . 
that he ait been question of musées nationaux or not , I cannot saurais the say yeas the moment . 
the Honourable Michael A . Meighen : 
honourable senators , the Leader of the government at the Senate admet certainly that , streets a case commentator gerrymandering of the Museum Heritage of health War , he vaut better than the government authorized the Opposition of file . 
the funding for the sector private doit venir by Act subsequently and non fell Prime instead . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate voit - he them things of unabated way or is - what the contrary ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
the other sources of funding gouvernemental are at the study . 
we espérons that the bill arranged soon réalisé . 
the senator Meighen : 
the senator Boudreau : 
however , he is streets the interest of toutes them parties that the bill ait of bonnes chances of réussir . 
Élections Canada 
the Manitoba - Possibility loss of data confidentielles 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
honourable senators , according the Globe Mail Mail of today today , health life privacy de675 40,000 Manitobains - authorized all levels conducteurs of health province - has been violée at the month of January when a fonctionnaire of Élections Canada has lost series bunch renfermant of them information confidentiels . 
he remembered agissait of the name of conducteurs , the their adresse , the their date of birth , the their sexe and the their licences of driver . 
these information personnels are utiles at them businesses legitimate commentator at them activities criminelles . 
til we said that royal bunch serait vraisemblablement streets a instead of enfouissement and that Élections Canada aurait commitments to them measures yeas that pareil incident not apply reproduise more . 
he is clear also that a principle fondamental Covenant at Act protection of them information personnels has been violé , at savoir the principle of the consent . 
transport data recueillies yeas series reason donnée not devraient never perhaps utilisées at series another end without the consent of health human concernée . 
some Manitobains not acclaimed not strokes the opportunity to give their consent at the one or the another level of government . 
i ai two questions at poser at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
the thanking , the government apply excusera he ' what malheureux incident auprès of health population manitobaine ? 
ensuite , the government abandonnera he his attitude cavalière and adhérera he at the principle fondamental of the consent - activist fell what who pertains them information which him are releases by the other governments that fell what who pertains ceux that he their adresse ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , the incident whose parle the senator is really malheureux and not to the everything insignifiant . 
health bunch who has been perdue renfermait of them information personnels provenant of health Division of them conducteurs and the foreign licences of driver of the Manitoba . 
unabated bunch is venue fell Act possession of Élections Canada , who has recognized that she has been jetée streets a bac at déchets and that she never gave not been recouvrée . 
unabated bunch renfermait of them information commentator the name , the adresse , health date of birth , the sexe and the numéro of licences of driver and the plaque of immatriculation of Manitobains . 
Élections Canada has assumé Act pleine responsibility to health loss and what is without hesitation that at the name of the government , I présente condolences excuses at toutes them persons touchées . 
everyone of subsequently after the incident , Élections Canada fell has informé them authorities Provincial , who him specialist Message Act bunch . 
series inquiry began been instituée Act - Government - champ . 
Élections Canada has ensuite fact Appeal at a Auditor of the outside yeas mood fell magazine ses process of security , puis overburdened fell implementation them changes recommandés by the Auditor . 
bearer incident is certes regrettable , but he is at espérer that he not apply reproduira not . 
the transfer of them data personnelles - Ex principle of the consent 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
honourable senators , I me réjouis of what that the Honourable Leader ait presented the foreign excuses . 
what geste arranged of them more appréciés . 
i ignore however if I ai received series response complète fell what who pertains the principle of the consent . 
if the Leader not can not fournir Act response Act - Government - champ , I him saurais gré of me communiquer series response différée Act Act policy of the government regarding what principle very fondamental . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I cannot am not everyone at fact certain of course saisir Act nature of health issue supplementary . 
the Honourable Senator accepterait - she of formuler at nouveau dapper préoccupation ? 
the senator Spivak : 
i estimated that foreign data who are recueillies streets a but not devraient not perhaps utilisées at series another end without the consent of health human intéressée . 
he rereads has series enormous quantité of information , commentator we the awakened learned elsewhere , who are Message at the government and at the other agencies . 
analyzed , the foreign companies vendent of them listes of clients without the consent of them intéressés . 
confirms prend the allure of a problem fell se . 
i believe understand that bearer incident is the nature accidentelle . 
confirms not illustre not least Act necessity of clarify what that I considère commentator a principle extremely important . 
the senator Boudreau : 
i thank the Honourable Senator of dapper implementation at the standpoint . 
i comprends his argument . 
i essaierai of obtaining series statement précise regarding unabated policy and I Act him transmettrai . 
the Manitoba - Possibility loss of data confidentielles - Comments procedures of security regarding Casual data personnelles 
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk : 
honourable senators , lors of the examination at the Senate to health Act électorale at the Canada , some of between us avions of them reserves regarding these mêmes provisions , at savoir , streets damned measure them information personnels petitioners - they protected and Oceans procedures mises fell place petitioners - thin or non suffisantes ? 
the government ' s Canada and Élections Canada we acclaimed assurés that what kind of things not pouvait not apply produire . 
i am étonnée that the Leader and Élections Canada disent now that Élections Canada is fell train of allegiances fell place to them procedures yeas prevent that these incidents not apply reproduisent . 
tangibly - he fell déduire that he not there Partnerships until at now aucune procedure anguishes nil system of control fell place since the adoption of health Act électorale ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I cannot voudrais not that mon hon. colleague fell hook series pareille conclusion . 
however , the foreign recommendations acclaimed been faites afin that the foreign measures additionnelles soient prises and appliquées . 
a number considérable of information are Message at Élections Canada and , fortunately , the kind of incident whose we parlons today today is rare . 
fell fact , run he has attiré our attention , what is richly because that confirms apply product very rarely . 
these provisions acclaimed been renforcées , soyez - fell assurés . 
quelles that soient them provisions prises , I cannot irais not until at say that he not risk not streets the future that the information authorized accidentellement divulguée . 
til me assure however that these provisions are fell voie of Welfare renforcées and that pareil incident not is more susceptible of apply reproduire . 
the senator Andreychuk : 
honourable senators , by subsequently of unabated very grave offence , not conviendrait - he not to allegiances fell place a committee of monitoring , or a group of vigilance , who veillerait at what that confirms not apply reproduise more ? 
these assurances we acclaimed already been data streets the past , and he seems that the snakes ait today today fact Appeal at Act technology nouvelle yeas transférer these dossiers of manner rather insouciante . 
ma confidence is ébranlée car , based on plan législatif , mostly fell matière of protection of health life privacy , we voulions virtually all that the system works and we awakened coopéré streets what sense . 
the moment not is - he not propice at a review independent yeas we ensure that foreign procedures envisagées are solemn fell place ? 
w ( 1450 ) 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , streets the case which we occupies , the Manitoba has been almost immediately prévenu and informé of the process appliqué . 
i apprends also that the commissioner at Act protection of health life privacy has been constamment tenu at the courant , that he has rose his aval at them changes which acclaimed been effectués , and that he guardian at everything the least satisfait that all levels afford raisonnables soient désormais overburdened fell implementation yeas we ensure that a incident similaire not apply reproduira not . 
transport fisheries and Oceans océans 
transport provinces Maritimes - Possibility decision to health Court Supreme confirmant them rights of fishery of them aboriginal - Comments fund destinés at the achat of licences yeas them aboriginal 
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau : 
honourable senators , the 4 November , I ai asked at the minister apply he pouvait fournir of them details Act Act proposal consistant at allegiances of side 500 million for $ yeas financer the achat of licences yeas them fishermen aboriginal of the Canada Atlantic . 
the minister not has not avoided fournir of details at what moment - là . 
commentator he remembered fell souviendra , ma question apply rapportait at Act decision Marshall of health Court Supreme . 
the minister is - he today today fell measure of us fournir of more amples informations ? 
apply he not the is not , could - he remembered adresser at the Department concerné ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I cannot am not fell measure of fournir at the Honourable Senator more of informations today today that the day where he has soulevé Act question . 
i vais certainly me enquérir at what topic auprès of the minister of them Fisheries . 
the senator Comeau : 
honourable senators , the minister should savoir that he not apply notional not to series question without importance at the Canada Atlantic , particularly fell Nova Scotia Nova , after Act rupture of the agreement conclu between them fishermen and Oceans aboriginal . 
unabated rupture fingertips manifestement a grandfather impact Act the future of them communities coastal and the minister should accorder series more grande importance at Act situation . 
she has the foreign repercussions streets everything the Canada , particularly streets Act region that connaît very well the minister . 
he should exercer series certaine pression yeas régler Act question . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I conviens that he remembered notional of series question very importante , who paving perhaps at the Prime plan to our concerns during a certain time . 
he is indispensable that foreign Canadians admits that foreign solutions at unabated question very importante repositories perhaps the foreign solutions auxquelles participent and that financent , at the meaning large , all levels Canadians and non not only them fishermen of health Nova Scotia Nova and the Government Brunswick - Brunswick . 
answers delayed at the foreign questions Oral 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I ai of them answers delayed at them questions Oral of the Honourable Senator Kinsella , the Government hon. Senator Rivest and the Government hon. Senator Bolduc , posées at the Sénatle 16 November 1999 , regarding the Correctional Heritage of the Intelligence of security , health loss of documents classifiés and the examination of the committee of monitoring of them activities of the Intelligence of security . 
i ai also series response at Act question who has been soulevée at the Senate Committee 18 November 1999 by the Honourable Senator Spivak and who concernait the Agreement - free - Exchange north - validate and series poursuite intentée by series society californienne fell consequential of health loss of a contract of achat of water fell vrac . 
the Solicitor General 
the Correctional Heritage of the Intelligence of security - Possibility loss of documents classifiés - Ex review of the committee of monitoring of them activities of the Intelligence of security 
( answers at them questions soulevées by foreign honorablesNoël A . Kinsella , Jean - Claude Rivest and Roch Bolducle 16 November 1999 . ) 
( questions regarding Casual examinations and based Act notification of the CSARS ) 
bye title of patron of the committee of monitoring of them activities of Intelligence of security , Madame Paule Gauthier has déclaré , lors of interviews of press récentes , that anguishes the Solliciteur General anguishes the steering of the SCRS not are referendums of health prévenir of reassess incidents . 
the SCRS dictatorship currently series inquiry of security Internal , and the Inspecteur General , who relève of the Solliciteur General , done also inquiry . 
the CSARS has sparked a review of dapper own initiative . 
laisser the CSARS and the Inspecteur General make their work . 
what are the foreign mechanisms of monitoring independent who acclaimed all levels powers nécessaires yeas wheel access at them informations of the SCRS , commentator the stipule series Act to the Parliament . 
( questions Act them commentaires of the Premier Minister ) 
the Premier Minister knows that three investigations are fell surveillance Act unabated affair , there including celles that mènent the committee of monitoring of them activities of Intelligence of security ( CSARS ) and the Inspecteur General yeas the SCRS . 
the government is persuadé that these two mechanisms of surveillanceindépendants , whose the existence is prévue by series bill to Parliament , auront unaccès total at them informations of the SCRS and feront well their work . 
he is important to them laisser make their work . 
( questions Act Act classify of the document and based them procedures of security ) 
because that he rereads has the foreign investigations and the foreign examinations fell surveillance , he serait inopportun of 209 Act nature exacte of them documents manquants or telecommunications procedures régissant the treatment of documents of unabated nature . 
the steering of the SCRS has garanti that toutes them measures nécessaires are prises yeas ensure the strict respect to them political établies fell matière of security . 
yet series once , he tangibly laisser the CSARS and the Inspecteur General of the SCRS pursue their examinations independent . 
( questions Act the steering of the SCRS ) 
the government has confidence streets them capacités of the Directeur and , series once again , I incite at laisser the SCRS analyzed that foreign mechanisms of monitoring of the outside that are the CSARS and the Inspecteur General pursue their examinations . 
transport committees parliamentarians arresting inviter all levels witnesses that they jugent appropriés . 
the trade international 
the Agreement - free - Exchange north - validate - Ex procès intenté by series society californienne fell consequential of health loss of a contract of achat of water fell vrac - Possibility Position of the government 
( response at Act question soulevée by the Honourable Mira Spivak : 18 November 1999 . ) 
the affair of the MMT not has not created the precedent yeas Act response to the government streets blunt another affair découlant of the chapter 11 the Government NAFTA . 
each affair is considérée individuellement , according his well - fondé . 
the group Special établi at them termes of the Agreement Act the trade intérieur ( ACI ) has presented his report before that foreign other contestations judiciaires not fell arrivent at unabated phase . 
the group has conclu that royal measure regarding the MMT at the level of the trade interprovincial guardian contrary at them objectives of the agreement . 
yeas conformer Act bill referred Act decision to the group Special of the ACI , the Canada has retiré the MMT of health list of them products chemical visés by the prohibition regarding the trade interprovincial and the importation . 
confirms has also licences at the Canada ' régler at the amiable with Ethyl Corporation . 
the affair of the MMT streets the framework of the NAFTA not is not allée au - delà of them arguments relatifs at Act jurisdiction , and aucune sentence finale not has been rendue . 
health society Sun Belt WaterInc. ( Sun Belt ) , the California , has presented the 2000 last series " Notification of the intent of soumettre series plainte at the arbitrage " , fell conformité with them provisions of the chapter 11 the Government NAFTA regarding the regulation of them différends between a investisseur and a Crown . 
by two once , and foremost recently fell November 1999 , Sun Belt has cherché at déclencher Act procedure of arbitrage fell signifiant a Notice of arbitrage at the Canada . 
however , business two documents fell question not répondaient not at them requirements procédurales of the chapter 11 the Government NAFTA , and the Canada has , fell consequential , informé Sun Belt that , at his opinion , aucune procedure of arbitrage at them termes duchapitre 11 not Partnerships been enclenchée . 
our position is that aucune procedure of arbitrage at them termes of the chapter 11 not can commencer before that Sun Belt not ait presented a Notice of arbitrage valide . 
streets them documents présentés at what day , Sun Belt prétend that royal British - British has commitments , between 1989 and now , various " measures " contraires at them provisions of the chapter 11 the Government NAFTA , there including health délivrance , fell 1989 , the permits of export of water fell vrac , and health conduct of the prosecutor General at the hook of the Action fell justice at compter of January 1993 . Changes allegations of offences commises by the Canada at the hook of the NAFTA visent them sections 1102 ( Traitement attain ) , 1105 ( Norme of treatment minimal ) and 1110 ( Expropriation and compensation ) . 
the moratoire and the regulation adoptés fell 1991 by Act British - British interdisant them exports of water fell vrac are contestés Subcommittee on prétexte that they are contraires at the right international , but aucune référence directe not is introductory at the foreign offences at them provisions of the NAFTA . 
the Canada wants constamment accroître Act transparency streets them procedures relatives at the regulation of them différends between a investisseur and a Crown . 
streets Act measure of the possible , he encourage the opening streets these procedures and asking at the requérant of make the same . 
the Canada is déterminé at contester vigoureusement Act plainte présentée against him by Act Sun Belt at them termes of the chapter 11 the Government NAFTA , if unabated plainte is soumise at the arbitrage according them rules . 
streets the affair DESONA , a court constitué fell vertu of the chapter 11 the Government NAFTA has recently rendu a judgment entièrement at the advantage of the Mexico , fell concluant that gerrymandering - ci not Partnerships , fell the occurrence , enfreint aucune of ses obligations at them termes of what chapter . 
what is Act first once that a court constitué fell vertu of the chapter 11 the Government NAFTA yeas hear series affair impliquant a investisseur and a Crown rend series sentence finale . 
streets ses constatations , the court has fixé of them limits claires understandings at them interprétations of them obligations duchapitre 11 regarding the investment who specialist been soulevées streets unabated affair . 
health sentence shows that these obligations not are not extensibles , and that their scope is limitée . 
the ORDRE OF THE 
the speech of the Trône 
motion of adresse fell response - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Kroft , seconded by the Honourable Senator Furey , Refer at the adoption of series Adresse at His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale fell response at the speech that Elle has prononcé lors of the opening of health second session of health trente - sixth législature . - ( 
5e day to health resuming the Government debate ) . 
the Honourable Douglas Roche : 
honourable senators , he rereads a80 years approximately , streets Act tour of health Paix , what magnificent symbol of health peace who confère a prestige Whalers at the Parliament of the Canada , til has sciences them mots suivants , tirés of them Proverbes : " Faute of vision , the Inuvialuit 21.2 without frein ; happy who observe Act bill . " 
bye the moment where we ourselves préparons at entrer streets a nouveau century and a nouveau millennium , we devrions réfléchir intensément at what proverbe of them Saintes Écritures . 
damned is our vision ? 
that envisageons - we yeas the Canada : one country of abondance , done to grands espaces , the industries and the resources , the progress technological and the énormes énergies Resources ? 
how envisageons - we the Canada by report at the rest of the world , fell unabated period cruciale of the history of the world , where them humans acclaimed the power to apporter Act security at the humanity , based Act planet of God ? 
the arrival of a nouveau century request for centrer our attention non only Act we - mêmes streets our country privilégié , but also Act the village global rendu possible by foreign prodiges of health technology . 
when we regardons the world streets his together , we devrions perhaps surprised and honteux of see them énormes souffrances tolérées by foreign systems political of the world . 
the XXe century ago been the most sanglant of the history of the humanity , Robbie that most of 110 million for persons acclaimed been tuées during the foreign guerres , what who represents three once more than all levels Late attribuables at Act War since the everything Prime century after Jésus - Christ . 
during that the foreign guerres are menées and consomment analyzed of grandes quantités of resources , business more démunis of our world grab their situation apply détériorer still davantage . 
soixante country apply appauvrissent regularly since 1980 . 
transport services of housing , the health and the education Cutbacks cruellement défaut streets the world entier . 
w ( 1500 ) 
even if we , at the Canada , impotent incroyablement privilégiés fell function of them standards internationales , what not is not series reason yeas perhaps suffisants or contents of us . 
bye the surveillance of them ten dernières years , the number of poor at the Canada is past the 3,7 million for persons at more of 5 million , what who represents 18p. cent of health population . 
more of 1.5 million for children , a child Act five therefore , vivent streets Act poverty . 
the problem of them without - abri has been qualifié of catastrophe national by foreign maires of them ten more grandes cities of the country . 
streets everything the Canada , business governments sabrent streets the funding destiné at them programs Cultural , at Act health and at the education . 
transport governments réduisent their deficits at the détriment of them poor . 
streets them years 90 , business appropriation consacrés at the Program of assistance Public at the development of the Canada acclaimed been réduits de37p. cent , and pourtant , at the hour actuelle , our Estimates military not are inférieures that the 19p. cent at our Estimates durant them pires years of health War Cold . 
the Canada has dépensé690 million for $ yeas participate at Act War of the Gulf et18 million for $ yeas them bombes larguées Act the Kosovo and health Serbie at the spring last . 
bye the Canada commentator at the abroad , we cynicism opposite at the foreign disparités choquantes and at the mauvaises priorities . 
streets a world of abondance , health justice social seems more éloignée that never . 
we participons at the foreign guerres who never devraient not wheel instead . 
transport grandes puissances possèdent of them weapons nuclear who mettent constamment fell danger the humanity . 
transport governments of health planet financent a militarisme excessif at the détriment of them poor . 
bref , business priorities of the government fell matière of spending military are follement disproportionnées by report at celles who concernent them Estimates consacrées at the development economic and Housing at series époque where the lack of developing is now recognized commentator étant Act more grande threat that arresting connaître Act the Mifflin Plan Act security them States them less développés . 
what is series situation of two poids , two measures at them proportions immenses streets the framework of laquelle them governments soutiennent of a side that they are incapables of financer them needs Cultural fell reason for them deficits and affectent of the another of them impotent énormes at Act War and at ses préparatifs . 
the year same who has suivi the sommet of the child fell 1990 , who faces is traduit by the foreign speech and little of money , the government has soudainement trouvé 60 billion to $ yeas participate at Act War of the Gulf . 
the industry to them weapons is whether puissante and his influence is whether envahissante that celle - ci affecte almost all levels aspects of health society occidentale . 
transport country occidentaux consacrent annuellement 483 billion to $ at Act defence , but sideshow 48 billion to $ at the assistance Public at the development , who is censée respond at them needs of security humaine of them regions them more déstabilisées streets the world . 
even what petit amount of assistance is 3.25 fell question , but them appropriation military franchissent them process gouvernementaux without perhaps contestés . 
health reality , what is that a developing economic sustainable could make tomber bon number of them tensions préalables at Act War . 
what is là Act lesson that we devrions tirer desannées 90 . 
he can arriver that the Employment of health strength authorized légitime streets Act quête of health peace ; however , if the snakes not redonne not at the Council of security his role prééminent commentator Gotcha source of legitimacy regarding the Points at Act strength , the univers court dangereusement toward the anarchie . 
til not can laisser the NATO determine she - even at breaching moment he rereads fingertips Points at Act strength ; pourtant , at the opportunity to the sommet marquant the 50e anniversary of the NATO , who faces is déroulé little after the beginning of them bombardements at the Kosovo , business participants acclaimed commitments délibérément Act decision to apply attribuer the role of arbitre chargé of decide to the moment opportun of employer Act strength . 
the gloatingly excessive of the NATO renforce now the inequality and health méfiance . 
transport Russes and Oceans Chinois not accepteront never a univers dominé by the NATO . 
already , business consequences of health War of the Kosovo acclaimed dépassé of loin the cost timeless . 
transport espoirs that the snakes orchid yeas a system of security World apply are fracassés against foreign écueils of the power . 
health confidence suscitée by what that til croyait perhaps Act end of health War Cold is today today détruite . 
series nouvelle course at them armements nuclear is at craindre if Washington , Moscou and Beijing not réussissent not at collaborer of nouveau . 
the world apply dirige everything right toward the gouffre nucléaire , perfectly illustré by the India and the Pakistan . 
the danger that présentent them weapons nuclear paving grandissant . 
unabated constatation should inciter them people of good volonté at the Breast of the government and the Day society civile at agir . 
the Canada not can most apply soustraire of series Action décisive fell apply abstenant of voter at them Nations Nations , commentator lors of health resolution présentée unabated year streets the framework of the nouveau program and demandant at them puissances nuclear of apply engager without équivoque at entamer of them negotiations menant at the Elimination of them weapons nuclear . 
that he remembered agisse of them weapons nuclear or the Day War of the Kosovo , what who is fell cause , what is Act primauté of the right . 
how the right international arranged he imposed streets them years at venir ? 
the arranged he by series puissance military who décide of what that should perhaps the right or by a effort collectif Whalers who implementation Act the respect to health primauté of the right streets the framework of them Nations Nations ? 
voilà Act question fondamentale who faces pose at the Canada at the aube of the nouveau millennium . 
honourable senators , even if the tableau that I viens of tracer is attristant , what is with espoir that I voudrais make opposite at the nouveau millennium . 
mon espoir réside streets Act meilleure compréhension that we awakened fell activist that community humaine of a world interrelié streets each sphère of activité . 
despite them guerres , health hunger , the number of without - abri and Oceans diseases which touchent of them million for êtres humans , the world avance néanmoins toward series nouvelle manner of diriger them Affairs internationales , who exige series more grande participation of all and who is more axée Act them persons . 
what movement can create them conditions favorables at series culture of health peace . 
til said often that royal War is inexorable , that she fact part of health nature humaine and that foreign humans apply battent since always . 
unabated analysis is superficielle . 
transport êtres humans not are not génétiquement programmés yeas make Act War . 
he not there has nil élément biologique inherent at our nature who product Act violence . 
the UNESCO fact remarquer that royal War commence streets Act tête ; the same , he we tangibly make entrer streets our spirit Act nouvelle teachings according laquelle Act peace is absolument necessary streets series ère technologique of destruction mass . 
yeas chasser the pessimisme Present , he tangibly reconnaître that royal War not is not inexorable . 
health violence telle that til the has standpoint fell Irak , fell Bosnia , at the Rwanda , fell Somalia , at the Kosovo and elsewhere not émerge not inexorablement of the interaction humaine . 
commentator Act haine and the incitation at Act violence engendrées by foreign inégalités payroll and Economic , and combinées at a supply easy fell weapons meurtrières , are if évidentes , he is essentiel and urgent of découvrir how prevent that the foreign différends not dégénèrent fell conflits massivement violent . 
the exodus problem here not is not that we ignorons everything of health violence naissante and the envergure , but rather than we ignorons how agir . 
authorized that we cannot prêtons aucune attention at them tueries who faces produisent streets them regions who never are not at the centre of our interests , or Robbie , commentator streets Act situation at the Kosovo , we déchaînons series vague of destruction Subcommittee prétexte of sauver the humanity . 
transport examples of them points chauds streets the world montrent that the potentiel of violence can perhaps diffusé by the application hâtive , habile and intégrée of measures political , diplomatiques , Economic and military . 
even if the terribles souffrances are infligées , til not can deny that foreign parties fell War acclaimed baissé them weapons at the Salvador , fell Namibie , at the Mozambique , fell Africa of the South , at the Guatemala and at them Philippines . 
transport agreements of peace fell Ireland of the North and at the Middle - Middle , even apply they are précaires , illustrent that the desire to peace - Government man may venir at bout of them stories of conflict . 
since 1945 , the ONU has négocié 172 regulations diplomatiques who acclaimed overburdened a term at the foreign conflits regional , there including health end of health War between the Iran and the Irak and the withdrawal of them troops soviétiques fell Afghanistan . 
health War and health violence are generally Act consequential of decisions political délibérées . 
rather than the wait that the foreign conflits aient éclaté yeas intervene and the chercher ensuite at consolider Act peace , he is more timeless and more efficient of prévenir Act violence fell apply attaquant at ses causes premières . 
what is the essence of series approach yeas series culture of health peace . 
transport efforts continus of the UNESCO fell standpoint of promote series culture of health peace are inspirants . 
fell response at series request who him Partnerships been adressée by the Assembly générale of them Nations Nations afin that she développe the idea of series culture of health peace commentator approach fell standpoint of prévenir Act violence and Oceans conflits armés , the UNESCO has défini them standards , business values and Oceans objectives visant at promote series culture of health peace . 
w ( 1510 ) 
a wit of peace , what is a whole of values , the attitudes , the traditions , the comportements and the modes of life who reflètent and inspirent the respect to health life and the foreign rights of health human . 
what is rejeter Act violence Subcommittee toutes ses forms and what is happening engager at prévenir them conflits violent fell apply attaquant at their causes premières by Act voie of the dialogue and the Day negotiating . 
til not acquiert not a wit of peace - Government day at the lendemain . 
bye the instead of planifier Act way of livrer Act War , the Canada should appuyer of everyone his poids them efforts of the Secretary General of them Nations Nations , Kofi Annan , who has underlined recently fell these termes Act necessity of promote series culture of health peace : 
he seems sometimes that royal culture of health peace not has aucune chance appeared Act culture of health War , health culture of health violence , and health culture of the impunité and the Government intolérance . 
health peace represents can - perhaps a challenge of taille ; she is perhaps - perhaps also tributaire of them actions conduites streets of nombreux domaines and without doubt , at the opportunity , the one petit coup of pouce of health chance . 
the process can apply avérer at Act once term and painful , at Act once fragile and imparfait series once réalisé . 
honourable senators , these ideas acclaimed been exprimées with vigueur at Act conference fell favour of health peace organisée at Position Haye fell May last ; unabated manifestation of four days ago réuni7 40,000 persons of 100 nationalités différentes venues assister at the foreign séminaires and the foreign concerts , see the foreign expositions and participate at series foule of activity fell favour of health peace . 
yeas apply pourvoir of series culture of health peace , the Canada doit élaborer of them political who favorisent Act security of health human , health implementation fell place to nouvelles coalitions and health poursuite of nouveaux pourparlers , who respectent Act primauté of the right , who privilégient them initiatives of peace , health prise of decisions démocratiques , and Oceans interventions humanitaires autorisées by the Council of security . 
he convient finally the BNA them political fell vigueur fell vertu desquelles of them billion to $ are consacrés at the armement and at Act militarisation , Robbie that , fault of financements , are sacrifiées of louables initiatives fell favour of the development and the foreign actions everything also louables fell favour of health peace and the Day security . 
honourable senators , health culture of health peace is a goal réalisable , certes , but he is also incontournable . 
fell the absence of series culture of health peace , the foreign million and the foreign million for humans risquent of périr . 
the Canada can - he oeuvrer fell favour of health primauté of them Nations Nations fell matière of resolution of them conflits ? 
i think that we the pouvons and that what is even our duty to the make . 
the Canada can - he remembered associer with the foreign States at them vues similaires yeas convince them country dotés of series ability nucléaire of apply engager streets of them negotiations visant at éliminer bearer armement ? 
i think that we the pouvons and that what is even our duty to the make . 
the mandate Prime of them Nations Nations - épargner at them generations at venir them affres of health War - should constituer series of them concerns fondamentales of the government ' s Canada . 
health perspective of series culture of health peace can we give series vigueur renouvelée fell what next millennium . 
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein : 
honourable senators , the senator Roche accepterait - he ' respond at series question ? 
the senator Roche : 
certainly . 
the senator Grafstein : 
the senator Roche and moi awakened already discussed the unabated question . 
however , I aime always hear what that he has referred say , mostly fell what who pertains the role of them Nations Nations . 
the Secretary General has recently blâmé them Nations Nations yeas their failure at Srebrenica . 
the other observers acclaimed said Act same something , authorized that foreign Nations Nations specialist failli at Act task seen them events survenus at Srebrenica . 
i you them remind briefly : foreign Nations Nations acclaimed établi at Srebrenica a refuge where them people devaient perhaps fell security , but the innocentes victims apply enfuyant yeas apply réfugier Subcommittee on flag white of them Nations Nations there acclaimed been massacrées . 
the Secretary General Kofi Annan has said that bearer failure guardian imputable at them Nations Nations . 
how réconcilier the opinion of the Honourable Senator , who voit them Nations Nations commentator a body global , protecteur and pacificateur , with Act reality of bearer body which , placé appeared the evil , run trouve dépossédé , impuissant and without Points ? 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
hon. Senator Roche , I regret to duty you interrupt , but I dois you remind that the time which you guardian alloué is elapsed . 
demandez - you Act leave of continue ? 
the senator Roche : 
yes , I request Act leave of pursue . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
is - what the agreement , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement 
the senator Roche : 
i you thank , honourable senators . 
the senator Grafstein has critiqué sévèrement them Nations Nations . 
i hope that he not me fell voudra not to say that royal description not guardian not complète . 
i cannot ai never said that foreign Nations Nations étaient series institution parfaite , not more than I qualifierais the government ' s Canada ' institution parfaite . 
however , he convient certainly the appuyer of them political who visent at établir of them conditions propices at Act peace , and what is exactly what that tentent of make them Nations Nations . 
i donnerai a odyssey example . 
the government ' s Canada has supported Act training of series strength policière permanente who serait mobilisée fell case of conflict yeas sauver of them vies . 
bye cause of the Opposition of them grandes puissances , business Nations Nations not acclaimed not yet accepted or overburdened fell implementation series telle strength policière . 
bye Act veille of the next century , we devrions restaurer Act primauté of them Nations Nations and not not permettre at the foreign associations régionales , even if what are the importantes associations commentator the NATO , the run replace at the autorité of them Nations Nations at title of Main agent légal of peace and the safety streets the world . 
voilà breaching should perhaps our standpoint of mire . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Atkins , the debate is adjourned . ) 
privileges , Rules and procedures 
passage of the second report of the committee 
the Senate proceeded at the study of the second report of the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure ( Church morave of America ) , presented at the Sénatle 24 November 1999 . - ( Le hon. Senator Austin , P ) . 
the Honourable Jack Austin : 
honourable senators , I move : Adopted of the report . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée , and the report is passed . ) 
third report of the committee - Stands of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
Final Report on third report of the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure ( question of privilege of the senator Kinsella ( , tabled at the Sénatle 24 November 1999 . - ( Le hon. Senator Austin , P ) . 
the Honourable Jack Austin : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate , I query give series brève explanation and non propose the adoption of the report at what standpoint - ci . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Austin : 
honourable senators , I ai of them concerns understandings at Act Availability of preuves corroborantes and suffisantes regarding health issue . 
unabated dernière can however perhaps réglée if them witnesses are loans at testify fell postponement Public rather than at camera closed . 
i recueille of them notice at bearer regard and , rather than the heed series discussion visant at determine when til doit recourir at them sittings at camera closed , I préférerais that the article at the study authorized reporté at tomorrow . 
w ( 1520 ) 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I voudrais that fell examinant of other informations , the chairman of the committee tienne account the Government fact that bon number of between us impotent of opinion that fell rule générale , toutes them deliberations of the Parliament of the Canada devraient perhaps translated . 
we reconnaissons that he rereads has , the time at another , certaines questions who repositories perhaps traitées at camera closed . 
the study by a committee of series ébauche of Report fell is a example . 
by conséquent , I urge the committee at driver ses deliberations publicly and non not at camera closed . 
streets Act measure where unabated question of privilege particulière VI them circumstances entourant the adoption of afford to pressures at the work , I tiens at remind at the chairman and at them members of the committee which palatable wheel of them doubts at what topic that , fell vertu of the right to the work , business questions of arbitrage not are not débattues at camera closed , but publicly . 
finally , streets Act measure where what is moi who ai soulevé Act question of privilege and where the committee wants that I participe at ses travaux , I dois say that I aurais well - Government evil at subpoenas at camera closed appeared the committee . 
what is a principle Act lequel I me fonde yeas fonctionner . 
i urge the committee at prendre all these aspects fell considération . 
the senator Austin : 
honourable senators , I reconnais Act validité of them principles that the senator Kinsella complements of mention . 
i think that what is at the chairman of the committee that he incombe of démontrer at the Senate why he serait opportun of heed series postponement at camera closed . 
these reasons arresting apply appliquer or non fell the occurrence . 
( the Senate apply ajourne at the Wednesday 1er December 1999 , at 1:30 1:30 30 . ) 
debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
2e Session , Session Session , 
volume 138 , Issue 14 
the Wednesday 1 er December 1999 
the Honourable Rose - Marie Losier - Cool , Speaker pro tempore 
table of them Contents 
STATEMENTS STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
health Journée World of the AIDS 
health Francophonie 
the inspecteur Robert Upshaw of health RCMP 
tributes at the opportunity to dapper promotion 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
section canadienne of the Church morave of America 
bill to Bill of interest private amend Act Act constituant fell human morale - Considered of series petition 
the Estimates for them Estimates for 1999 - 2000 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee of them finances nationales at And the Estimates for them Estimates 
finances nationales 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at permettre Act diffusion of ses deliberations by the foreign afford électroniques 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at engager of the staff 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
transport Affairs Foreign 
the dépassement of them Estimates for immobilisation prescribed yeas certaines ambassades of the Canada 
the development of them resources Resources 
the level adéquat of health provision of health caisse of the EI - employment 
the Council of the Treasury 
the report of the Auditor General - Ex attribution of markets at a provider unique - Ex établissement of a mechanism of sober obligatoire of them markets 
transport finances 
the report of the Auditor General - Comments problems liés at series Subcommittee - estimation of the surplus budgétaire 
health Défense national 
the report of the Auditor General - Possibility implementation fell implementation of the Program of Ethics of health Défense 
the Heritage 
the retard streets Act construction of the nouveau Museum of health War - Possibility protection of them trésors nationaux 
the nouveau Museum of health War - Possibility nature of the funding private 
transport travaux of the Senate 
answer différée at series question orale 
health justice 
health possibility of protect davantage them people against Act violence 
orders OF THE 
health Act to implementation fell implementation of the Agreement Act Act Station spatiale international civile 
second reading 
referred at the committee 
health Act Act Act Assent Royal 
second reading - Motion to amendment ? Point at the rêglement - Adjourned of the debate streets the attente of health decision to the Speaker 
motion of amendment 
Points at the rules 
routine legal and Constitutional 
Authorized at the committee of sit fell same time that the Senate 
banks and Commerce 
Authorized at the committee of sit fell same time that the Senate 
Énergie , Environment and resource Natural 
motion visant at autoriser the committee at examiner Act Act canadienne Act Act protection of the Environment - Adjourned of the debate 
transport travaux of the Senate 
Points at the rules 
Énergie , Environment and resource Natural 
Authorized at the committee of And of them questions liées at his mandate 
Authorized at the committee of engager of the staff and the run déplacer - Adjourned of the debate 
Authorized at the committee of permettre Act diffusion of ses deliberations by foreign media électroniques 
the SENATE 
the Wednesday 1er December 1999 
health postponement is ouverte at 1:30 1:30 30 , the Speaker pro tempore étant at the fauteuil . 
prayers . 
health Journée World of the AIDS 
the Honourable Erminie J . Cohen : 
honourable senators , I prends Act parole today today yeas souligner Act Journée World of the AIDS . 
bye the least 109 country reconnaissent unabated journée , laquelle attire the attention Act series illness who affecte of them people streets the world entier . 
health Journée World of the AIDS VI at sensibiliser davantage the world at unabated terrible illness and at recueillir of them fund additional fell standpoint of there allegiances end . 
he rereads has already belle lurette that the AIDS not is more assimilé at series illness of homosexuels . 
unabated illness contagieuse mortelle apply attack at toutes them couches payroll , without heed account the Day race , the Government sexe or the Day situation social or economic . 
ONUSIDA , the body of them Nations Nations chargé of And Act illness and the freiner Act propagation of the virus , has recently released a report exposant Act terrible threat that unabated épidémie fact peser Act the world entier . 
something 5,6 million for persons uncovered infectées unabated year only , what who portera at 33,6 million the number of êtres humans atteints of unabated illness . 
his incidence rose augmenté of 10p. cent by report at the year dernière , the AIDS continues to apply répandre commentator a gun of brousse . 
health propagation of the VIH due at the usage of drogues injectables is devenue a problem urgent . 
he is grandfather time that the Canada adopte series approach fell what who pertains Act health Public , commentator the acclaimed fact already Act Britain - Britain , business Pays - Bas , the Australia and health Switzerland , who accordent at them toxicomanes the access at various models of treatment , without apply limiting at Act promotion of the abstention , but everything fell augmentant the assistance financière versée at them centres of treatment . 
health twelfth Journée World Annual of the AIDS apply adresse at them young of the world entier . 
the thème of unabated year is " Changes children and Oceans young : 
Écouter , learn , vivre " . 
what is everything at fact opportun étant rose that , according the report of the ONU , health plupart of them victims of the AIDS contractent the virus before the wheel atteint the age of 25 years and meurent before the celebrate their trente - fifth anniversary . 
til believes that the information auprès of them young is the approach Act more prometteuse who authorized yeas reduce Act propagation of the virus of the VIH . 
today today , 20 years after that royal first épidémie ait frappé , ONUSIDA estimated that the worst rest at venir at least the genus intensification of them efforts fell standpoint of éradiquer unabated illness . 
bye the aube of the nouveau millennium , we devons concentrer our efforts Act the education , health prevention , the improvement of them care of health and finalement , espérons - Government , the treatment . 
yeas arriver at allegiances a term at unabated terrible épidémie , we devons lancer a Appeal at them leaders of them country of the world entier afin that they conjuguent their efforts . 
what not is that fell travaillant together that we pouvons espérer venir at bout of unabated illness . 
health Francophonie 
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier : 
honourable senators , health Francophonie apply is prononcée clearly yeas Act protection of health diversity culturelle . 
réunie at Paris the 30 November 1999 , health Conférence ministérielle francophone , présidée by the Honourable Ronald Duhamel , Secretary - State Heritage at Act Francophonie , has réaffirmé the principle already énoncé lors of the Sommet of Moncton , at savoir that : 
transport biens Cultural not repositories fell aucune way perhaps réductibles at their Gotcha dimension economic and Shipping and that foreign States and governments acclaimed the right to établir freely their political culturelle . 
the Secretary General of the Organization international of health francophonie , Rand Boutros Boutros - Ghali , has déclaré of his side that foreign country francophones not palatable not accept the foreign " rules which palatable diminuer them identités nationales " . 
health Francophonie international is the autant more attachée at the principle fondamental of health diversity culturelle and at the plurilinguisme that they constitute dapper basic philosophique and dapper reason for perhaps . 
commentator you the savez , honourable senators , streets the report Act Act policy étrangère of the Canada entitled : " Principes and priorities yeas the future " , tabled he rereads has five years already , the committee of health House and the Government Senate Partnerships , at unabated époque , clearly établi , at the chapter 6 of what report , and I quote : 
the committee recognizes heavily that royal policy étrangère of the Canada touchant them Affairs culturelles , scientists and éducationnelles doit make part intégrante of series policy national , élaborée of concert with the provinces . 
each country has series identity culturelle who him is own , and unabated unicité deserves a treatment particular . 
the Canada doit reaffirm dapper Position afin of nouer of them alliances yeas make reconnaître Act necessity of protect and the promote them crops nationales . 
[ later later ] 
the inspecteur Robert Upshaw of health RCMP 
tributes at the opportunity to dapper promotion 
leave rose been granted to revert at them statements of senators : 
the Honourable Calvin Woodrow Ruck : 
he seems that what authorized the Prime Noir at achieve a rang also élevé streets Act RCMP . 
we analyzed extremely fiers of our brother Robert Upshaw and we him souhaitons Act meilleure of them chances streets Act poursuite of his work , car he exerce series influence Act them young who aspirent at the reassess rôles who consistent at serve Act tradition hon. Senators Act Mounted Royal Canadian the Canada . 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
section canadienne of the Church morave of America 
bill to Bill of interest private amend Act Act constituant fell human morale - Considered of series petition 
the Honourable Nicholas W . Taylor : 
the Estimates for them Estimates for 1999 - 2000 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee of them finances nationales at And the Estimates for them Estimates 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that Thursday next , the 2,500 December 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them finances nationales authorized authorized at And , afin of fell make report , business Estimates projetées streets the Estimates for them Estimates yeas the fiscal financier apply ending the 31 March 2000 ; and 
that the Comité présente his report at the most tardle 31 March 2000 . 
finances nationales 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at permettre Act diffusion of ses deliberations by the foreign afford électroniques 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that Thursday next , the 2,500 December 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them finances nationales authorized habilité at permettre the reportage of ses deliberations translated by foreign media of information électroniques , fell dérangeant the least possible ses travaux . 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at engager of the staff 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that Thursday next , the 2,500 December 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them finances nationales authorized habilité at retenir them services of advisors legal , the staff technical , the employees of office and the other persons at the need , yeas help the Comité at examiner them bills of Bill , health seams of these derniers and Oceans forecasts who him acclaimed been déférés . 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
transport Affairs Foreign 
the dépassement of them Estimates for immobilisation prescribed yeas certaines ambassades of the Canada 
the Honourable Terry Stratton : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate and pertains Act question that I ai posée Act week dernière at the topic of the Department of them Foreign Foreign , who aurait dépassé de50p. cent them appropriation initialement prévus streets the budget Main of them Estimates . 
transport forecasts apply are élevées now à130 million for $ yeas them travaux of construction , dont70 million yeas Act construction of our embassy fell Germany fell reason for the transfer of health Capital allemande of Bonn at Berlin . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
what is honteux ! 
the senator Stratton : 
these issues acclaimed been posées appeared the committee of them finances at the moment where he remembered penchait Act the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates . 
i ai asked at them door - parole of the Council of the Treasury Board justify what dépassement of 50p. cent of them costs and the me give the foreign figures détaillés . 
they acclaimed promised to obtain the information and the Leader of the government at the Senate has done to even . 
i dois reconnaître that the senator Hays has always responded enough quickly at our questions . 
i imagine that he can compter Act a effectif more important , car the senator Carstairs there mettrait more long . 
series Senators : 
he complements of the Alberta . 
the senator Stratton : 
a Albertain serait - he more efficient that a Manitobain ? 
i cannot the believe not ! 
two questions acclaimed been posées , the genus at Act meeting of the committee of them finances and the another at the Senate , health week dernière . 
thin are relatively simples . 
i ai fini by find Act response at lapage 5 of the quotidien The Ottawa Citizen of what morning . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate should perhaps - perhaps me ask them answers at these issues . 
i pourrais him say that at Seoul , fell Korea , he rereads has a dépassement of 22 million for $ . 
the most , what dépassement could wheel entraîné the cancellation of the bill . 
the Department has bought a terrain yeas 15 million for $ he rereads has five years . 
what terrain is vacant . 
if til utilise Act méthode of calcul of them interests Act the cost of renonciation de15 million for $ Act five years , til obtient a cost of renonciation of 8 million for $ Act these 15 million for $ . 
he rereads has ensuite Act residence at York Delhi , fell India , who has coûté 200 40,000 Expenditures of more than prévu . 
the senator Di Nino : 
confirms represents much of money fell India . 
the senator Stratton : 
that is - what who faces proceeded at the Department of them Foreign Foreign yeas that he not puisse not contrôler them costs ? 
i dispel understand that til ignore everything of them corps of métier streets the sector local of the bâtiment streets a country rose , but confirms not has nothing to nouveau at the Department of them Foreign Foreign . 
he fact what kind of something since the foreign years . 
he can certainly wheel a meilleur control Act them costs that at the hour actuelle , where them costs dépassent de50p. cent them estimations initiales . 
what is everything at fact absurd that we ayons a bill referred Seoul with a dépassement of 22 million for $ and that til the annule of sorte that the terrain rest vacant . 
the Leader of the government voudra can - perhaps respond . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I thank the Honourable Senator of ses observations . 
the senator Prud man : 
répondez at the speech , I you prie . 
the senator Boudreau : 
streets series certaine measure , I sharing Act déception of the senator at the hook of the fact that the Leader Deputy of the government not has not answered more quickly at unabated question fell particular . 
however , I reconnais also that fell General , he répond quickly and I the fell thank . 
fell what who pertains them problems precise that the Honourable Senator raises , he is obvious that we essayons of obtaining the most possible yeas our money streets the case of all levels bills of construction , fell we fiant Act them resources locales of the country . 
bye fell juger by foreign information that the Honourable Senator has partagés with us , these resources locales acclaimed been someone little imprévisibles durant the exécution of these projects . 
i essaierai of obtaining the foreign information more precise yeas respond at them concerns of the senator . 
the senator has mentioned the case precise of the terrain shirts vacant . 
til not can that espérer that what terrain vague ait triplé of value since , what who we permettrait of not not subir of cost of renonciation and perhaps - perhaps even the réaliser a gain . 
the senator Stratton : 
i believe that the Senate and Oceans Canadians deserve of meilleures explanations . 
these dépassements of cost are scandaleux . 
how réglerez - you what problem ? 
how empêcherez - you that confirms apply reproduise at the future ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
the senator has soulevé a standpoint important . 
i ai said that I communiquerai at the senator Act réassurance of the minister that he rereads aurait a review of these problems and that , he tangibly the espérer , the foreign measures petitioners prises afin of avoid that confirms apply reproduise . 
the development of them resources Resources 
the level adéquat of health provision of health caisse of the EI - employment 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
honourable senators , imitant fell confirms the senator Stratton , I query moi also add a preamble at ma question . 
streets his report of the 19 November 1999 , the Auditor General parle of the surplus of health caisse of the EI - employment . 
transport rate of cotisation at the EI - employment are établis by Act Commission of insurance - employment , who regroupe of them representatives of them employees , the foreign employers and the Government government , and they repositories perhaps approuvés by the cabinet , based Act recommendation of the minister of them Finance and the Government Minister of the Développement of them resources Resources . 
these rate devraient permettre of couvrir them costs of the program everything fell restant relatively stables indépendamment of the cycle economic . 
he is normal that the snakes prévoie a level adéquat of health provision , but Act bill not gives aucune precision Act what who constitue a level adéquat . 
streets series letter envoyée at Act Minister of the Développement of them resources Resources fell July last , the Auditor General has underlined that the surplus of health caisse of the EI - employment dépasse now the level of them 10 at 3:15 billion to $ that the actuaire of health caisse Justice suffisant yeas satisfaire at them requirements of health law . 
the Auditor General has said rejecting at Act Minister , étant rose that the surplus dépassait the level jugé suffisant by the actuaire : 
account tenu of the état Present of the surplus , he rereads has instead of divulguer and the specifying them factors servant at determine the level adéquat of health provision . 
streets Act response that he gives at the Auditor General , the government apply contente simply the specifying the process servant at établir them rate and not gives not subsequently at Act suggestion précise him enjoignant of divulguer them factors servant at determine the level adéquat of health provision . 
honourable senators , at Act end of March , the surplus of health caisse of the EI - employment arranged supérieur at 26 billion to $ . 
bye a moment rose at the surveillance of health next year financière , he dépassera them 30 billion to $ . 
the case échéant , breaching is what amount and how is - he établi ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , commentator you the savez , he rereads has a very généreux surplus streets Act caisse of the EI - employment . 
bye propos , the généreux surplus is the outcome of series saine economy , the genus economy commentator celle that we connaissons streets the moment . 
series of them consequences of series economy florissante , what is that foreign needs auxquels doit respond the regime of insurance - employment are less lourds that they not the petitioners streets of other circumstances , and we ourselves réjouissons all of unabated situation . 
by subsequently of unabated growth , business premiums of insurance - employment acclaimed been réduites of way marquée at the surveillance of them dernières years . 
i cannot ai not them figures fell main , but I dispel fingertips them obtain and you them communiquer and I am convaincu that the Honourable Senator knows that he rereads has strokes series reduction graduelle . 
some soutiennent that unabated reduction graduelle not is not intervenue enough quickly or that she aurait owed apply pursue . 
health Commission of the EI - employment , who établit them rate , has passed a standpoint of standpoint something little différent . 
bye mon notice , she apply shows prudente . 
however , we devrions reconnaître that the government and the economy acclaimed the deserves the us wheel overburdened fell presence of bearer interesting challenge . 
the senator Oliver : 
perhaps - perhaps the Honourable Minister has he devancé the minister of them Finance and we took he rose to them forecasts Economic ? 
however , ma question portait spécifiquement Act Act provision of health caisse . 
if she apply élève now at 26 billion to $ and that she passera at the surveillance of health next year financière à30 billion to $ , when the amount arranged he enough élevé ? 
damned serait according the minister series provision adéquate ? 
when business employers arresting - they apply wait at bénéficier of a allégement ? 
the senator Di Nino : 
a allègement exodus ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , business employers arresting apply wait at the foreign allègements constants , commentator at the surveillance of them dernières years . 
bye the fur and at measure that foreign programs acclaimed rose them results attendus , the foreign allègements acclaimed been accorded by the government federal . 
bye combien doit apply élever Act provision ? 
i cannot dispel give series response exacte at Act question of the senator . 
confirms depends of the état of the economy at a moment precise . 
the other factors arresting entrer fell line of account . 
whereupon that he fell authorized , he vaut better pécher by excesses of prudence . 
i cannot dispel give the opinion personnelle Act them niveaux adéquats of health provision . 
i believe not not me tromper fell disant that if the surplus continues at augmenter , he remembered could fort well the government envisage of other réductions . 
the Council of the Treasury 
the report of the Auditor General - Ex attribution of markets at a provider unique - Ex établissement of a mechanism of sober obligatoire of them markets 
the Honourable Marjory LeBreton : 
honourable senators , streets his report of November 1999 , more specifically auchapitre 30 entitled : " Changes markets of services professionals conclus with a provider unique " , the Auditor General apply is penché Act Act practice adoptée by the government ' attribuer of them markets of services professionals at a provider unique . 
according unabated practice , the government attribue of them contracts without recourir at Act competition , and what at the profit from a provider unique . 
the Auditor General apply is also penché Act a mechanism appelé the " préavis of adjudication of contract " , or PAC . 
honourable senators , business contracts are censés perhaps attribués by voie concurrentielle , gold til proceeded outre at them rules yeas choose a provider rose . 
commentator the rapporte the Auditor General : 
... Act plupart of them markets that we awakened vérifiés unabated year not résisteraient not at the examination public . 
transport figures are étonnants . 
according the Auditor General , nearly of 90 per - Provincial markets rose fact the objet of series vérification acclaimed been accorded fell dépit of them regulations . 
honourable senators , business contracts of 25 40,000 Expenditures and more regarding the foreign markets at provider unique représentent approximativement 1,34 1.1 of $ of them Estimates for the government . 
gold them services fournis not are absolument not clairs . 
the most , health quantité of work Proposed by the provider is rarely examinée of manner critique , and Oceans rules regarding the affichage of them PAC not are not correctement observées . 
fell outre , odyssey a petit number of these markets répondait at them rules justifiant the Points at a provider unique . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , we convenons all that , streets them circumstances habituelles , the attribution of a contract at a provider unique not is not Act meilleure way of procéder . 
however , he can there wheel of them circumstances - and the Honourable Senator the knows surely - where what is approprié . 
streets what case - ci , the Auditor General has rose his opinion Act some contracts . 
bye the term of a review enough détaillé of these contracts , he has jugé that foreign lines directrices not étaient not always observées . 
i am course that the minister fell question fera bon accueil at them observations constructives of the Auditor General , and I prévois that he fell tiendra account and agira fell consequential . 
the senator LeBreton : 
honourable senators , when he is question of 1,3 1.1 of $ or the 90 per , til can difficilement parler of " approximativement " . 
what word has therefore series nouvelle signification . 
honourable senators , yet series once , the Auditor General has said : 
Élargir the champ of them exceptions or not not fell heed account represents series decision injustifiée , the Day share of some officials , the BNA the balance of them values that the government has établi yeas orienter Act conduct of ses Affairs . 
i me permets of remind , honourable senators , that , even if streets the book red of 1993 them Liberals specialist promised to reduce them Estimates affectées at them services professionals and spéciaux , the government has accru considérablement the Points at Act Subcommittee - traitance . 
fell fact , at the surveillance of the émission This Hour Has22 Minutes of health week dernière , til has said that the book red aurait owed remporter the Prix of the Governor General of health category of them oeuvres of imagination . 
essaie he ' préserver his power and his influence auprès of ceux who bénéficient of them contracts at provider unique ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , fell what who pertains the book red , the government arranged jugé by foreign Canadians fell time opportun . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
you there serez . 
the senator Boudreau : 
he remembered can that I there sois . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
nay , you there serez and , Honourable Senator , you souhaiterez perhaps here . 
we serons là we also . 
the senator Graham : 
there serez - you ? 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
i there serai . 
Halifax - Centre . 
the senator Boudreau : 
we awakened more of candidates , if I comprends well . 
what is a example that I cannot am not certain of recommander . 
yeas fell revert at Act question , I believe that foreign Canadians jugeront the government Act ses performances générales strokes regard at the book red . 
i cannot think not that he existe something justification that what authorized at the government yeas accorder of them contracts who never petitioners not streets the interest of them Canadians . 
the minister paving manifestement prendre at the sérieux them commentaires of the Auditor General . 
the senator LeBreton : 
if them contracts are accorded streets the interest of the public , he not there has aucune reason yeas that we cannot devions nothing savoir at their topic . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , the Honourable Senator has exprimé clearly ses concerns . 
all levels governments reconnaissent that , streets some cases , the foreign contracts repositories perhaps accorded otherwise that by the system of soumission normal . 
transport finances 
the report of the Auditor General - Comments problems liés at series Subcommittee - estimation of the surplus budgétaire 
the Honourable Roch Bolduc : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
the Auditor General has underlined series lacune streets Act policy of the government , who persiste at make the foreign assumptions too prudentes by report at Act growth economic and at them rate of interest . 
he déclare that unabated méthode guardian useful at the époque of them deficits car she assurait at them markets financiers that everyone guardian Subcommittee control , but that , fell period of excédents , she amène the government at dépenser davantage toward Act end of the fiscal financier . 
according the Auditor General , puisque , if the snakes fact of them forecasts prudentes , the surplus réel arranged probably supérieur at the surplus prévu : 
bye the moment where confirms devient obvious , toward Act end of the fiscal , he is generally too later yeas influer Act them results fell réduisant them taxes and Oceans taxes , what who fact that the increase the foreign Estimates devient the moyen the most effective of éliminer a surplus " excessif " . 
composite of them two derniers Budgets contenait of nouvelles Estimates importantes who acclaimed been imputées at the fiscal where the budget has been tabled . 
honourable senators , the Auditor General said ensuite that " confirms diffère very little of them Estimates for end of fiscal effectuées by foreign departments who disposent of funds excédentaires , except that he remembered notional non more of millions , but the billion to $ who 6,000 of health poche of them taxpayers " . 
no is - he not time that the government révise unabated practice which BNA at engager of them Estimates considérables fell end of fiscal simply yeas modify the importance of the surplus or the Government deficit déclaré ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I ai read some of them commentaires that the senator mentionne . 
the Auditor General apply inquiète of the fact that the government Subcommittee - estimated the surplus yeas series reason or series another . 
til can him give all levels motifs that the snakes wants . 
fell entendant these remarques , I me étonne of see at breaching standpoint them time acclaimed changed . 
i me souviens very well - Government époque where the Auditor General critiquait the government year after year because that he Partnerships surestimé them revenues , amplifié exagérément them data , gravement Subcommittee - estimé them deficits and , by conséquent , trompé them people fondamentalement . 
what is what that teamwork some ordres of governments , and what guardian series practice dangereuse . 
the Government standpoint of standpoint of health comptabilité or the Day management , what is perhaps - perhaps series mistake that the perhaps too prudent when til introduces them excédents . 
streets what case , what is series mistake who is the loin préférable at the another extrême , that til has seen during if long fell what country . 
the senator Bolduc : 
honourable senators , the Leader of the government utilise the same biais that his colleague , the minister of them Finance . 
the blunt évidence , the surplus budgétaire of unabated year arranged supérieur at gerrymandering announced fell February 1999 . Au instead of garder these funds , why the government not declining he not them taxes everything of subsequently , sachant that he rereads fingertips a surplus ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , the foreign projections acclaimed been faites by various organizations and institutions distinguées streets our country regarding the performance of our economy yeas series period of several years and Oceans excédents probables yeas unabated same period . 
fell General , til introduces of them excédents yeas them five prochaines years . 
i am the agreement with the minister of them Finance Present yeas say that , even if the telles projections are utiles at certaines purposes of planning , health period should perhaps much more courte yeas Act budgétisation and health planning of them programs gouvernementaux . 
the way realistic , series period of two years is at somewhat close Act period maximale with laquelle til can travailler yeas Act budgétisation and health planning of them programs . 
i reconnais however that , if we analyzed too prudents and if the surplus is more important that prévu , he not could perhaps - perhaps not perhaps utilisé immediately . 
health Défense national 
the report of the Auditor General - Possibility implementation fell implementation of the Program of Ethics of health Défense 
the Honourable Michael A . Meighen : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
streets dapper campaign fell favour of the bill to Bill C - 25 , who visait at modify Act Act Act Act Défense national , at the spring of 1998 , the government has said at them Canadians that toutes them recommendations liées at the inquiry Act them events of Somalia specialist been mises fell implementation . 
pourtant , streets Act part of his report Convey Act Act Défense national , the Auditor General souligne of thanking that the Program of Ethics of health Défense not has not yet been entièrement overburdened fell implementation . 
what program guardian Act pierre angulaire of them recommendations liées at the inquiry Act them events of Somalia . 
the Leader of the government reconnaîtra he that foreign recommendations liées at unabated inquiry not acclaimed not yet been entièrement mises fell implementation , and perhaps - he we say when we pouvons we await at what that thin the soient ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , the minister and the Department travaillent at the aboutissement of the program that the senator has mentioned . 
health critique of the Auditor General guardian rather than what program not fonctionnait not commentator he should fonctionner according him . 
what is series observation useful that the minister prendra certainly at the sérieux streets ses efforts fell standpoint of achever Act implementation fell implementation of what program . 
the senator Meighen : 
honourable senators , I am impatient of see soon released a report we apprenant that til has terminé Act implementation fell application of the program . 
the Heritage 
the retard streets Act construction of the nouveau Museum of health War - Possibility protection of them trésors nationaux 
the Honourable Norman K . Atkins : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
yesterday , I him ai asked if the government tenait really at Act construction of a nouveau Museum of health War . 
the government knows - he that royal Maison Vimy , who is pleine at craquer , souffre also the toits who fuient and the genus ventilation and the one conditionnement of air of piètre quality , what who met fell danger more of 12 40,000 objets of art , whose some of grande value ? 
i him recommends however , analyzed that at all levels senators , the aller visiter Act Maison Vimy . 
that fact the government yeas veiller at what that these trésors nationaux soient protected fell attendant that he décide of financer or non a nouveau Museum Heritage of health War ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I tiens at ensure personally at the senator that , before Act resuming the foreign travaux of the Senate , at the surveillance of health nouvelle year , I aurai visited Act maison Vimy . 
health issue that raises the senator is sérieuse . 
commentator he the souligne , I cannot fell organize not much at what topic . 
however , I prendrai few information and I visiterai personally them lieux . 
the nouveau Museum of health War - Possibility nature of the funding private 
the Honourable David Tkachuk : 
honourable senators , ma question pertains series observation that the Leader of the government at the Senate has introductory yesterday Act a topic analogue . 
he remembered agissait of health necessity of recueillir of them fund auprès of the sector private yeas construire the nouveau Museum Heritage of health War . 
the breaching funding private the minister parlait - he ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I faisais allusion at Act possibility of lancer series campaign to Funding private at laquelle them Canadians petitioners invités at participate . 
the senator Tkachuk : 
honourable senators , unabated campaign arranged she lancée by the Party Liberal of the Canada , by the government ' s Canada , by foreign Veterans Veterans or , perhaps - perhaps , by the foreign people who acclaimed profité of health War , commentator Winchester and Jeep ? 
the minister could perhaps - perhaps we explain how apply déroulera unabated campaign . 
i trouve honteux that we allions same until at parler of unabated question . 
i know that foreign senators ' fell opposite not éprouvent aucune shame when he remembered notional of discuss the issues of what kind . 
là where we voulons really fell venir , what is that we cannot awakened not to silver yeas construire a nouveau Museum of health War and , pourtant , we dépensons of the money yeas of other things , whose 1,3 million for $ yeas of them contracts accorded at the foreign Liberals streets everything the country . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , if I comprends well , the content of some elements of health issue of the senator not guardian not everyone at fact sérieux . 
we awakened a distingué Quebecer and former veteran , the honorableBarney Danson , and his committee , who are directly engagés streets what Bill No. 
i présume that he participera forcément at all levels efforts who uncovered déployés yeas that foreign Canadians appuient financièrement what Bill No. 
the senator Tkachuk : 
honourable senators , when business Canadians demanderont àM. Danson combien of money the government ' s Canada apply is engagé at affecter , that their dira he ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
transport travaux of the Senate 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
honourable senators , the time alloué yeas Act period of them questions is now elapsed . 
health leave is - she granted to pursue , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
health Ruling is intervenue yeas ask if them senators souhaitaient prolonger Act period of them questions . 
i believe that we devrions wheel yeas practice of not not fell autoriser Act extension the Wednesday . 
we devrions limiting Act period of them questions of way at what that he authorized possible for lever Act postponement at 3:15 1:30 30 , commentator we souhaitons the make the Wednesday , at time yeas that foreign committees puissent pursue their importants travaux . 
answer différée at series question orale 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I ai Act response at series question that the Honourable Senator Sparrow has posée at the Senate Committee 16 November 1999 , at the topic of health possibility of protect davantage them people against Act violence . 
health justice 
health possibility of protect davantage them people against Act violence 
( response at series question posée by the honorableHerbert O . Sparrow : 16 November 1999 ) 
few provinces apply inquiètent of them vols with violation of domicile . 
what type of behaviour criminal is grave and inspire the Day crainte at them citizens , mostly at them persons seniors . 
health press , who has recently rapporté of them incidents at Vancouver , fell British - British , has attiré the attention Act to reassess mood . 
according the Centre international yeas Act prevention of health criminalité ( CIPC ) , situé at Montreal , " flight with violation of domicile " apply entend of the effraction of domicile with flight qualifié , what is - at - say flight of biens with threat or usage of violence or telecommunications two during Act perpétration of the acte criminal , or well with usage of series weapon offensive or the genus imitation of weapon . 
the reassess mood acclaimed instead when business persons are chez thin , the objective of these mood étant of steal of them biens , the Government money and the foreign drogues illicites . 
streets a report of 1996 Act Act statistique criminelle at the Canada , the Centre Heritage of health statistique legal ( CCSJ ) has rendu account the Government rate of incidence of them vols with violation of domicile . 
the CCSJ publie of them reports Act them grandes trends of health justice pénale . 
transport vols qualifiés acclaimed diminué fell 1998 yeas Act second year consécutive , with a déclin of 3p. cent , business effractions acclaimed diminué of 7p. cent and Oceans mood criminals violent , the 2p. cent yeas Act sixth year consécutive . 
lors of health meeting of them Subcommittee - ministers fédéraux , provinciaux and territorial responsables of health justice , les25 and 26 February 1999 , he has been convenu that royal question of the flight with violation of domicile serait renvoyée at them hauts officials yeas that soient élaborées at what topic of them opportunities for measures , legislatures or other . 
a document at what topic is fell preparedness . 
the Centre attain of health prevention of the crime has commandé at the CIPC series study Act them afford to reduce and the prévenir efficacement the cambriolage of residence and the flight with violation of domicile , streets laquelle the degree and the ampleur of celle - ci submariners perhaps évalués , at them plans attain and international , and submariners perhaps discutés them factors of risk and Oceans meilleures actions of prevention . 
what document devra help at élaborer of them stratégies non legislatures of prevention fell matière of flight with violation of domicile . 
bye them termes of them provisions actuelles of the Code criminal , series condamnation yeas flight qualifié or flight with effraction entraîne series peine maximale of emprisonnement at perpétuité . 
series telle peine reflects the fact that the Parliament considère that these mood criminals are very graves . 
if the flight qualifié is commis with series weapon at gun , series peine minimale of emprisonnement of four years is prononcée . 
the foreign judgments récents touchant the flight with violation of domicile reflètent them principles and Oceans objectives of health determination of health peine . 
the foreign peines very dures acclaimed been prononcées . 
streets R . Q Matwiy ( 1996 ) , 105 C . C . C . ) 3e ) 251 , where the contrevenant Partnerships commis a flight with violation of domicile , health Court of Appeal of the Alberta has jugé that foreign mood criminals who portent atteinte at the right to them citizens at Act security of their domicile and at Act protection against foreign intrusions repositories perhaps envisagés with the most grandfather sérieux . 
health cour has reminded that royal Court Supreme of the Canada also Partnerships recognized the character inviolable of the domicile staff and that unabated inviolabilité guardian the one of them principles of health common law since 1604 . 
few judgments of the Alberta acclaimed disposé that royal peine minimale yeas the flight with violation of domicile capitalists perhaps the eight years of emprisonnement and that bearer acte criminal justifiait series peine minimale more sévère that the flight at main army of series banque or the genus institution commerciale . 
a judgment récent of health Court Supreme of health British - British , R . Q Bernier , has condamné at quatorze years of prison a contrevenant who has participated at series intrusion streets a domicile . 
the judge Bouck motive dapper decision fell disant that before that apparaisse the fléau of them invasions of domiciles , health Court of Appeal of health British - British imposait series peine of emprisonnement variant of four at nine years when the entrée by effraction guardian accompagnée of a flight qualifié but that the ampleur of health situation exigeait now that royal Court apply écarte of health peine normally imposée streets of reassess case ... 
orders OF THE 
health Act to implementation fell implementation of the Agreement Act Act Station spatiale international civile 
second reading 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Stollery , seconded by the Honourable Senator Hays , Refer at Act second reading of the bill to Bill C - 4 , Act Convey implementation fell implementation of the Agreement conclu between the government ' s Canada , business governments of States members of the Agency spatiale European , the government ' s Japan , the government ' health Federation of Russia and the government ' Affairs States - U.S. of America Act Act cooperation relative at Act Station spatiale international civile and apportant of them changes connexes at the other Acts . 
the Honourable William Kelly : 
honourable senators , I am pleased to parler today today to the bill to Bill C - 4 . 
however , I veux everything of thanking congratulate the senator Stollery of his exposé Act the bill to Bill , who guardian clear and the quality . 
the bill to Bill C - 4 is necessary , car he fournira at the Canada Games fondements législatifs whose he has need yeas adhere ses obligations at them termes of the Agreement Act Act cooperation relative at Act Station spatiale international civile . 
if I ai well including , business States - U.S. acclaimed ratifié the agreement fell April 1998 . Le Japan the has ratifié fell November 1998 . Le Germany and health Norway the acclaimed also ratifié . 
the process of ratification is fell surveillance at the Canada , at the Kingdom - Kingdom and streets of other countries européens , and the snakes apply is fixé the 29 January 2000 commentator date target yeas Act ratification complète of the agreement . 
he not there has that fell Russia , countries déchiré by the foreign problems political and Economic internes , that royal ratification not is not imminente yeas the instant . 
commentator composite the knows , streets our regime , health conclusion of agreements internationaux is Act prerogative of health crown . 
the approval of the Parliament not is not necessary yeas the agreement proprement said ; however , she is necessary yeas harmoniser some aspects of health législation canadienne with the agreement . 
account tenu of the fact that he remembered notional of a agreed international who has the foreign repercussions majeures yeas the Canada Act the Mifflin economic and streets them sectors of health research and the Day technology and account tenu of the fact that the agreement traite of several aspects until at now inexplorés , I think that til aurait avoided give at the Parliament more of time yeas examiner the bill to Bill and the agreement analyzed that their repercussions . 
i account and I hope that these issues uncovered étudiées carefully fell committee - Request the least , I hope that thin uncovered examinées more carefully that at the another place . 
whereupon that he fell authorized , I estimated that what is a bill to Bill whose we devrions approve the principle with enthusiasm . 
what Bill of Bill is necessary yeas that the Canada puisse play his role of partner streets the one of them more grandioses bills scientific of the history , at savoir Act Station spatiale international civile . 
honourable senators , health participation canadienne at Act station spatiale not represents certes that 2,5p. cent of the cost total , according them estimations , but our task BNA at fournir the Correctional of maintenance mobile , or SEM , who constituera a élément of series importance Capital . 
bye ma knowledge , the SEM servira at the assemblage of health station spatiale and at fell ensure the maintenance durant blunt dapper life useful . 
the SEM is composed of equipment and the facilities apply trouvant activist at bord of health station that at earth . 
Incidence them elements at bord of health station , til account the system of télémanipulation of health station spatiale , who is a bras spatial sophistiqué , and his system of maintenance mobile . 
the Canada fournira also the manipulateur at function spéciale , who is a robot at two bras . 
the Canadarm and the system of télémanipulation of health station serviront all levels two at the assemblage and at the maintenance of health station spatiale durant blunt dapper life useful projetée of 10 years . 
transport facilities at earth fournies by the Canada comprendraient a complex of operations of the SEM situé at the seat Main of the Agency spatiale canadienne at Saint - Hubert , at the Quebec . 
the Agency spatiale has been a important catalyst yeas the apport of the Canada at the industry . 
the industry spatiale of the Canada is devenue a rouage important to the economy canadienne . 
commentator the senator Stollery the has done remarquer , she is at the origin of incomes of more of a 1.1 of $ , whose 30p. cent 6,000 of them exports . 
she represents 5 40,000 jobs streets more of 250 businesses of a bout at the another of the country . 
what is series industry streets laquelle the sector private Heritage has played a role of Prime plan . 
the sector private investit approximately a million for $ by year fell R - D liée at the foreign bills spatiaux . 
til introduces that royal participation of the Canada at the bill to station spatiale coûtera 1.4 1.1 of $ and rapportera at the Canada more of six billion to $ and 70 40,000 years - individuals fell employment . 
health station spatiale we permettra of make the foreign progress streets them telecommunications , particularly streets them telecommunications without son , who are if importantes yeas the Canada fell reason for our grande étendue géographique and the our nombreuses communities isolées . 
health station spatiale permettra of make progresser them techniques of observation of health earth , a sector of two billion to $ by year who is fell pleine expansion and where the Canada apply ombudsman already commentator Opposition of file thanks at Radarsat . 
fell dépit of the importance of the industry spatiale yeas the economy canadienne , particularly yeas Act growth of the economy of health next generation , the funding gouvernemental of the Agency spatiale canadienne is past the 378 million for $ fell 1993 - 1994 at 350 million unabated year . 
i dois say , honourable senators , that I hope that confirms not is not a signe before - coureur of a scénario auquel til assiste of time fell time . 
we awakened fell effect trend at conclude of them ententes , at us engager streets of them bills very importants puis at reduce graduellement Act contribution that we avions accepted the verser at the origin . 
i hope that what not is not what who faces proceeded . 
i ai said earlier earlier than unabated initiative méritait , at mon notice , our soutien enthousiaste . 
i cannot dis not confirms sideshow fell reason for them benefits Economic at court term , but yeas several other motifs . 
health Station spatiale international not has nil role military direct . 
by example , she never rereads not serve at lancer of them satellites or the foreign missiles . 
confirms garantit that she servira sideshow at the foreign purposes pacifiques . 
he tangibly everything particularly appuyer and encourage Act participation of health Russia at the bill . 
the experience Russian , with Act station spatiale MIR , represents the énormes benefits yeas the bill . 
the module of service Svezda , lancé fell October by the agence aerospace Russian , servira of premiers quartiers of habitation and the centre of control of health station until at the arrival of the module USS Destiny , at the beginning of the 2000 next . 
transport fusées russes Proton and Soyouz are also the foreign elements importants of the bill . 
the Parliament Russian not has not yet entamé the process formel of ratification of the entente , but I believe savoir that royal participation Russian apply fact commentator prévu and apply poursuivra . 
the one standpoint of standpoint can - perhaps a little more égoïste , I dirai that royal participation of the Canada him gives the right to utiliser Act station yeas mener of them experiences scientific and techniques . 
fell vertu of the article 21 of the entente , business results of all levels travaux of research menés by composite of them partners demeureront dapper ownership intellectuelle . 
yeas that the Canada hook the meilleur party possible for unabated opportunity without precedent , the Agency spatiale canadienne has overburdened Act foot a program fell microgravité afin that foreign researchers Airports acquièrent of the experience streets Act conception and the déroulement of experiences and streets the utilisation of équipement spatial . 
the program fell microgravité comprend also the foreign fund yeas Act training and health implementation at the standpoint of the equipment nécessaires at the déroulement of travaux of research streets Act station spatiale . 
by conséquent , the Canada arranged doté of series ability industrielle and the search who him permettra of utiliser Act pleine ability scientifique and the search of health station spatiale . 
finally , honourable senators , he rereads has 40 years , a jeune chairman validate we mettait at the challenge of explorer the nouveau sector of the space . 
when he the has done , the world vivait streets the spectre of health War Cold , streets Act crainte constante that royal competition between them two superpuissances finirait by aboutir at series conflagration nucléaire . 
the chairman Kennedy not voyait streets Act course at the space that series course visant at permettre at series superpuissance of apply give series supremacy economic , scientifique , military and idéologique by report at the another . 
breaching chemin we awakened parcouru ! 
bye the surveillance of a century who has connu them premiers balbutiements of the aviation , we awakened sent a man Act Act Lune . 
we awakened sent to them sondes streets them confins of the space . 
we placerons soon a microphone who we permettra of hear yeas Act first once them sons émanant of health planet Mars . 
we cannot impotent more at them doors of series nouvelle border , commentator the Tisserant the chairman Kennedy . 
we awakened now occupé what territory and we ourselves apprêtons at bénéficier of them nombreux benefits that he recèle . 
however , he regardless more than everything of souligner that streets the framework of series initiative commentator celle of health Station spatiale international and the blunt series series of agreements internationaux rose trait at the space , our occupation of them lieux not has nothing to territorial and VI rather of them objectives scientific and the learning at the profit from blunt the humanity . 
we occupons the space non not with the foreign instruments of war , but unsuccessfully with the foreign instruments of peace . 
honourable senators , animé of bearer spirit , I you prie of course vouloir And the bill to Bill C - 4 . 
i aurai hurry of participate at Act once at the study fell committee and at the phase of health third reading , if necessary . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
if nil another hon. Senator not widow prendre Act parole , I remind that he has been proposed by the Honourable Senator Hays , supported by the Honourable Senator Moore , that the bill to Bill circulation the objet of series second reading . 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée and the bill to Bill is read series second once . ) 
referred at the committee 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series third once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Hays , the bill to Bill is renvoyé at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign . ) 
health Act Act Act Assent Royal 
second reading - Motion to amendment ? Point at the rêglement - Adjourned of the debate streets the attente of health decision to the Speaker 
the Order of the day appelle : 
the Honourable Anne C . Cools : 
honourable senators , I voudrais make few remarques at the topic of the bill to Bill S - 7 . 
i étais intervenue the 9 June 1988 Act his prédécesseur , the bill to Bill S - 15 , who guardian identique . 
honourable senators , I believe streets Act Constitution of the Canada , streets Act monarchie BNA , streets ses institutions and streets Majesty Majesty , health reine ElizabethII. 
bye mon arrival at the Senate , I ai prêté oath of allégeance at Majesty Majesty . 
he is the mon duty , account tenu of what oath , the confirm them rights and interests of Majesty Majesty fell activist that third élément constitutif of the Parliament of the Canada . 
health Act BNA of 1867 , section 17 , stipule : 
he rereads fingertips , yeas the Canada , a parlement who arranged composed of health Queen , the genus House upper appelée the Senate , and the Day House of them Commons . 
honourable senators , I thank the Honourable Senator Lynch - Staunton of wheel licences Act tenue of what debate which tombe at standpoint , the autant more after them results of the referendum australien Act Act monarchie . 
the 6 November 1999 , business Australiens acclaimed voted by 55p. cent against 45 of garder Act reine Elizabeth II yeas monarque . 
the bill to Bill S - 7 door Act Act prerogative Royal Canadian Majesty Majesty regarding the octroi of health Assent Royal at them bills of Bill adoptés by the Senate and health House of them Commons . 
the objet of the bill to Bill is Act Assent Royal who gives strength of Bill at them bills of Bill adoptés . 
the bill to Bill S - 7 pose a problem constitutional important and urgent . 
how Act Assent Royal , the instrument same who gives strength of Bill at a bill to Bill , perhaps - she she - even make the objet of a bill to Bill who , series once adopted , devra recevoir Act Assent Royal yeas wheel strength of Bill ? 
honourable senators , health prerogative Royal is the touchstone of the government by the executive and she rend possible the fact that the government authorized responsible . 
health prerogative Royal is whether essential that the Statut of Westminster of 1931 Marsden that blunt Modified at the Kingdom - Kingdom of health succession at the Trône or at the subheading royal or at them 209 capitalists recevoir the assentiment of them Parlements of them States of the Commonwealth , whose faisait part the Canada . 
the Statut of Westminster Tisserant fell part rejecting : 
whereas that he convient , puisque Act couronne is the symbol of health free association of all levels members of the Commonwealth britannique and that they are unis by series commune allégeance at celle - ci , the déclarer fell preamble that serait conforme at their situation BNA the obligation to assujettir désormais blunt Modified of them rules of succession at the trône and the introductory of them 209 royaux at the assentiment of them parlements of them dominions commentator at gerrymandering of the Parliament of the Kingdom - Kingdom ; 
honourable senators , business media acclaimed rapporté fell September the acte of the Governor General sortant , Rand Roméo LeBlanc , relatively at them armoiries of the vice - roi , his lion and health language of the lion . 
transport lecteurs of the National Post devraient connaître few facts regarding Casual prétendues armoiries of the vice - roi . 
transport armoiries fell question not are not " telecommunications armoiries Languages " deM. Roméo LeBlanc , commentator til we the has said , but them armoiries royales utilisées at the Canada , communément - and at wrongly - appelées them armoiries of the Canada . 
the same , these armoiries not arresting not perhaps appelées armoiries of the vice - roi because that thin Cutbacks part of them armoiries of Majesty Majesty of the Opposition of the Canada , commentator the has confirmed Act proclamation of 1921 . 
poursuivant Act a another Governor General who has retiré a Insignia royal of the office of the Governor General , Rand Meyer has written rejecting : 
bye the surveillance of his mandate of Gouverneure générale , Ms Jeanne Sauvé has débarrassé the papier at letter , business plats and Oceans assiettes of Rideau Hall , and until at them guérites of health residence of the Governor General , the Day couronne who guardian utilisée since the beginning of health Confederation . 
she the has remplacée by what that ses laquais décrivirent commentator the " lion vice - royal " , what is - at - say the emblème who fact the objet of the insatisfaction deM. LeBlanc . 
some disent that what is a inconvénient absolu and a ennui yeas Act House of them Commons . 
transport ministers trouvent simply too dérangeant of there assister . 
what is became too dérangeant yeas the Prime Minister , puis yeas them ministers , puis yeas them Members , puis also yeas them judges of health Court Supreme of the Canada . 
fumisterie ! 
transport honourable senators , however , assistent fidèlement at Act Assent Royal fell unabated Room , at the Senate , health House of health Assent Royal . 
honourable senators , I conteste ceux who prétendent that royal Assent Royal is series pure formality . 
they apply trompent . 
their affirmation fausse or erronée not can , at strength of répétitions , devenir vraie or fair . 
Benjamin Disraeli , who has been Prime Minister of the Kingdom - Kingdom at Act end of the XIXe century , has décrit streets his ouvrage of 1852 , Lord George Bentinck : 
has Political Biography , health exodus strength and the exodus sense of health Assent Royal by Act Queen . 
he écrivait : 
fell activist that Division of health législature whose health decision is finale , and therefore sollicitée fell last , the opinion of the souverain remains free and non compromise until at what that the assentiment of them two Houses ait been received . 
what veto of the monarque English not is not non more series formula vacuum . 
he not is not difficult to conceive the case where his fiscal , supported by foreign sympathies of a Inuvialuit loyal , could défaire a cabinet anticonstitutionnel and a parlement corrompu . 
honourable senators , what is Act exodus place BNA of health Assent Royal streets our monarchie BNA fondée Act Act responsibility ministérielle . 
health Assent Royal is unabated phase Parliamentary and is Act Gotcha phase streets everything our process législatif Parliamentary where them three elements constituant the Parliament apply réunissent yeas former the Parliament of the Canada streets the framework of health promulgation of laws , the Day transformation of measures fell laws . 
health Assent Royal is bearer acte quintessenciel streets our system of government ministériel responsible who manifeste Act presence of health Queen at the Parliament , what standpoint tournant streets the process of Adopted of them laws at the Parliament . Position Assent Royal not is not series simple formality . 
what is series procedure essential . 
what is the acte the most visible of health Queen of the Canada , who , since Act Confederation , run fact at the Senate yeas of bonnes reasons Constitutional . 
transport senators repositories protect Act visibilité of the role réel of health Queen streets the Parliament of the Canada and our Constitution . 
the Clerk of health House of them Commons is the subamendment - Clerk of them Parlements . 
the huissière of the bâton noir is Act messagère personnelle of health Queen who joue what role between Act Queen and Oceans two Houses yeas permettre at Act Queen of apply acquitter of ses duties parliamentarians . 
transport duties Constitutional of the Parliament of the Canada not arresting perhaps accomplies that at the Senate . 
everyone the Parliament apply réunit here yeas the speech of the Trône , that til appelait before the speech of the souverain . 
until fell 1947 approximately , the Governor General of the Canada Partnerships ses bureaux streets the Block of the East . 
yet everything recently , the Governor General venait here , at the Senate , yeas proroger the Parliament and dissoudre them Houses - Request them duties parliamentarians importantes who faces exerçaient of way visible until at what that , yeas of them motifs administratifs , health prorogation and health dissolution apply fassent fell private , at Act residence official of the Governor General , loin of them yeux of the public , the dapper knowledge and the dapper compréhension . 
health population not can not connaître , because that til them him hiding , ses propres language , culture and coutumes political Robbie that royal Position of the monarque fell activist that pivot is réduite . 
health commodité administrative not is not a motif valable yeas démanteler of them practices Constitutional essentielles . 
the former prime minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau has décrit Act strategy nationaliste actuelle of the Quebec d' " independence sournoise " , d' " étapisme " , a concept invented by the regretté Prime Minister separatist of the Quebec , René Lévesque . 
they veulent tel or tel power now , tel another power ensuite , and earlier or later , business Québecois finiront by see that they are gouvernés davantage by Quebec that by Ottawa and they feront Robbie the grandfather saut fell donnant subsequently at their bill . 
we fell cynicism autant with Act monarchie at the Canada ; we supprimons series mention streets the name of a department , we cynicism disparaître a Insignia here or là , we renonçons at telle or telle tradition , analyzed of subsequently . 
honourable senators , the senator Lynch - Staunton estimated that the change that he moved to apporter at Act Assent Royal doit mood by a bill to Bill No. 
he has reason . 
a bill to Bill apply ombudsman yeas modify the way also fondamentale the Order constitutional of dapper Majesty and the Government Senate at the Canada . 
the senator move the BNA Act prerogative Royal Canadian Majesty Majesty fell what who has trait at Act Assent Royal donnée at them bills of Bill No. 
what change apporte series restriction . 
the bill to Bill S - 7 limite the fiscal of health prerogative Royal fell matière of Assent Royal and , parallèlement , limite Act constitution of the Senate . 
series Modified of health prerogative Royal Canadian unabated ampleur not can perhaps amenée that by Act voie of a bill to Bill , streets the respect to health practice BNA , the Government right and the foreign usages parliamentarians . 
bye the topic of the consent royal , Beauchesne said rejecting at the paragraph 726.1 of health sixth edition : 
honourable senators , what is a example of the étapisme of our monarchie . 
honourable senators , fell what who has trait at the phase of them deliberations entourant the consent royal , lecommentaire 726 ( 2 ) the Beauchesne said rejecting : 
the usage wants that the consent royal authorized signifié blocks the commencement of the debate . 
his défaut rend nulles and non avenues them deliberations antérieures fell standpoint of the adoption of the bill to Bill No. 
bye propos of the consent royal and the Day second reading , the commentaire 727 ( 1 ) the Beauchesne said rejecting : 
the consent of health crown is indispensable each once that he remembered notional of questions mettant fell cause ses prérogatives . 
well that the consent puisse perhaps signifié at not regardless damned phase of them deliberations précédant the adoption définitive of the bill to Bill , the usage of health House wants that he the authorized lors of health Presented of health motion Convey second reading . 
honourable senators , business advisors of Majesty Majesty , business ministers , business conseilleurs Woodlot , agissant pursuant at them rules établies , laughed , constitutionnellement parlant , quality yeas obtain the consent royal . 
by conséquent , lors of the study of a bill to Bill touchant them prérogatives royales , he rereads has everything instead of croire that they arresting signifier the consent royal . 
however , yeas a simple Parliamentary , health situation is very différente . 
yeas a simple Parliamentary of a party to Opposition , health situation is also intéressante . 
if the bill to Bill of what Parliamentary of a party to Opposition receives the appui of the government , health situation serait strange Act the Mifflin constitutional , car them ministers of Majesty Majesty , ses éminents advisors , fell refusant législativement and parlementairement of maintain and the defend them prérogatives of Majesty Majesty , mettraient fell péril these prérogatives mêmes , desquelles they reçoivent their autorité , their power and their prééminence ministériels . 
unabated situation risquerait of entraîner series crisis BNA . 
however , I insiste here Act them simples parliamentarians and based Act measure streets laquelle they palatable , with their bills of Bill , modify them prérogatives royales . 
honourable senators , health communication which apply ombudsman yeas obtain the consent royal of Majesty Majesty has been confirmée streets the fourth report of the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure , who has been presented at the Sénatle 6 November 1985 . 
i believe that what committee guardian Robbie chaired by the senator Gildas Molgat . 
health third recommendation of the report Tisserant , at Act page 1469 : 
that the foreign representatives of the Senate rencontrent of them representatives of health House of them Commons yeas rédiger series resolution fell standpoint of health preparedness of series adresse who doit perhaps présentée conjointement by foreign two Houses at His Excellency the Governor General Act priant of course vouloir approve certaines changes at Act ceremony of health Assent Royal décrite streets what report . 
transport mots clés are " adresse " and " justice priant of course vouloir approve " . 
toutes them sources who Cutbacks autorité conviennent that royal House doit recevoir the consent royal streets the case of everyone bill to Bill who modifie them prérogatives royales of health Queen , before that he not authorized adopted streets unabated House . 
honourable senators , fell what who has trait at Act Position of them simples parliamentarians and at the obligation that they acclaimed loyalty Act House at the topic of bills of Bill semblables , Alpheus Todd , streets the ouvrage already quoted , has written : 
unabated signification should perhaps donnée before Act Presented of the bill to Bill No. 
but when a bill to Bill of interest public who répond at unabated description is censé perhaps presented by a simple Parliamentary , and non fell vertu of the power to ministers , health House should apply adresser at Act crown yeas him ask Act leave of agir at what topic , before Act Presented dudit bill to Bill ; ... 
bye nil moment he not has said how he comptait procéder yeas ask and obtain the consent royal of Majesty Majesty , condition préalable indispensable yeas that the Senate expecting and adopte what Bill of Bill No. 
the senator Lynch - Staunton has the duty to introduce series adresse at Majesty Majesty Act reine yeas him ask the consentir at what that we étudiions what Bill of Bill No. 
what is based unabated motion Convey unabated adresse that the debate public and Parliamentary apply ensuivra . 
motion of amendment 
the Honourable Anne C . Cools : 
rejecting said , honourable senators , I query propose an amendment at Act motion . 
i move : 
that the bill to Bill S - 7 not authorized not now read series second once , but rather when his mover remplira Act condition exigée by Act bill to the Parliament before the adoption by the Parliament of a bill to Bill of initiative Parliamentary amend series prerogative Royal , unabated condition préliminaire étant Act signification of the consent royal of Majesty Majesty at the study by the Parliament of ses interests streets the bill to Bill S - 7 , who move the limiting and the BNA them formalités of octroi of health Assent Royal by Majesty Majesty at the Canada , and the Government same coup of modify Act constitution of the Senate . 
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin : 
honourable senators , I query that til me permette series question and series observation by subsequently of the speech of Mrs. the senator Cools . 
streets the framework of ses remarques , she has utilisé the word " laquais " fell parlant of the staff to health residence or the Government office of the Governor General . 
the senator Cools : 
i ai spoke of whereupon ? 
i cannot ai never nothing said to tel . 
the senator Corbin : 
you the prostituted well said . 
our practices parliamentarians we interdisent of make the foreign remarques diffamatoires Act Act human of health Queen or the Government Governor General . 
i am persuadé that confirms apply étend also at the staff to health House and at gerrymandering of the Governor General . 
i am also persuadé that foreign paroles of Mrs. the senator Cools acclaimed dépassé dapper journalistic . 
what not is not at moi of him remind that he is inconvenant of utiliser of reassess termes , but what is very clear streets the spirit of all . 
i me request if the senator Cools voudrait withdraw ses paroles . 
i raises Act question streets the same spirit who we ferait we opposer at the utilisation of what term yeas describe the staff to the Senate . 
i cannot believe not that we devrions describe the Day sorte the staff to health residence of the Governor General . 
the senator Cools : 
honourable senators , I thank the senator Corbin yeas dapper question . 
i observance that he remembered trompe and that I cannot ai not said what that he me fact say . 
i tiens at say clearly at everything the world here that I am probably Act more grande partisan that the monarque and the Governor General aient eue at the Senate . 
i tiens at well specifying that these propos not are not them miens . 
the senator Stratton : 
is - what that you we méprisez ? 
the senator Cools : 
if you voulez prendre Act parole , not you gênez mostly not ! 
these propos not are not them miens . 
i the répète , what are them propos of the chairman of health Division of health British - British and the Government Yukon the Day Corporation héraldique of the Canada , Rand Rean Meyer . 
i ai read at them senators series letter queM. Meyer has écrite , the 8 September 1999 , at the National Post . 
if the senator Corbin : widow , I him fournirai with plaisir series copy of bearer section afin that he puisse the examiner and constater that these propos not are not them miens , but ceux of the author of health letter . 
i tiens at well specifying that I am tellement dévouée at the office of the Governor General that I adorerais that the Governor General vienne here each once that series Assent Royal apply ombudsman . 
condolences propos visent today today at encourage foreign Gouverneurs généraux of the Canada at exercer their pleins powers fell activist that representative staff to Majesty Majesty . 
what Bill of Bill has ses supporters commentator he has ses detractors . 
til me said that several Veterans Gouverneurs généraux not are not ravis of certaines provisions of the bill to Bill No. 
i thank still the senator Lynch - Staunton of wheel lancé what debate car Act Assent Royal fact part intégrante of the Senate . 
when I ai been nommée here , I ai fact the oath of Welfare loyale loyalty Majesty Majesty and I jure appeared God of the perhaps . 
what is exactly what that I am fell tain of make . 
the senator Corbin : 
honourable senators , yeas revert Act what that I ai said at the senator Cools , he not particulars not that she apply trompe Act mon attitude . 
she has suscité much of sympathie chez moi yeas appuyer his standpoint of standpoint . 
néanmoins , we devons make attention at what that we disons . 
he is arrivé that , streets the another place , health Ruling Justice that til not can not make indirectement what that he is interdit of make directly . 
when til quote series letter or a section of newspaper of health pen of series human who never is not a obviate streets the debate , ses propos deviennent ceux of the orator . 
well that what soitM. Meyer who the ait wrote , what is the senator Cools who has proféré what word at the Senate . 
the senator Cools can fell penser what that she wants , but I estimated that confirms not apporte nothing at dapper thèse . 
i believe rather than confirms rabaisse the level of the debate . 
the senator Cools : 
Points at the rules 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I invoque the rules . 
i request at Act Ruling - prendre fell considération unabated motion that he jugera ensuite irrecevable . 
he not there has nothing streets the bill to Bill who modifie Act prerogative Royal or health Assent Royal . 
the bill to Bill move simply that royal ceremony traditionnelle , who never is not prescrite by series bill , authorized préservée and , fell guise of another possibility , that the octroi of health Assent Royal apply effectue at the moyen of a message . 
health prerogative of Majesty Majesty , health Assent Royal , third part constituante of the Parliament , demeurerait exactly Act same . 
the bill to Bill not done that propose two méthodes différentes of octroyer Act Assent Royal , whose the genus is celle that we utilisons already referred the least two once by year . 
unabated motion paving more loin that the bill to Bill No. 
she touche a standpoint who never is absolument not soulevé streets the bill to Bill , at savoir Act prerogative Royal . 
by conséquent , I request at His Honour the Speaker of health déclarer irrecevable . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I allais propose the adjournment of the debate . 
however , the senator Lynch - Staunton request series decision and I cannot know not apply he convient of ajourner the debate fell of pareilles circumstances . 
if til can the make , Robbie I move : adjournment . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , til has invoqué the rules . 
health practice habituelle fell what case exige that the Speaker entende them other honourable who désirent parler of what Points at the rules . 
when the Speaker is the notice that the Senate has received suffisamment of information , he can apply prononcer or prendre Act question fell advisement . 
i entendrai therefore them other honourable who veulent intervene at the topic of the Points at the rules . 
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs : 
honourable senators , I am the agreement with the Points at the rules of the senator Lynch - Staunton . 
the bill to Bill whose we analyzed saisis , and that I supports , découle of series practice of unabated House and not move nothing to more . 
the Governor General , and by conséquent Act Queen , doit conserver a moyen of octroyer adéquatement Act Assent Royal at a bill to Bill No. 
the présent bill to Bill traite of the process at suivre yeas octroyer Act Assent Royal . 
according mon interpretation , unabated measure legislative not viole aucunement Act prerogative . 
the objective of what Bill of Bill is the allegiances end at series ceremony who Partnerships instead fell unabated House Robbie that anguishes the Governor General anguishes them Members at Act House of them Commons not étaient présents . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
our procedures comportent series series of guarantees . 
he tangibly give a notice yeas that foreign honourable senators sachent at the avance damned proposal arranged présentée . 
everyone condition préalable imposée at Act freedom of the assemblée or the one Parliamentary of introduce series motion streets the genus or the another House of the Parliament doit perhaps explicitement prévue streets the rules . 
aucune rule not dresse of them barriers that foreign senators devraient wheel at surmonter before the power introduce series motion . 
health motion of amendment whose we analyzed saisis said clearly that the mover of the bill to Bill S - 7 should , before the introduce his bill to Bill , satisfaire at certaines conditions . 
i estimated that what is là the standpoint crucial of the rappel at the rules introduced at the Speaker . 
we devons prendre grandfather soin of préserver Act freedom who is laissée at all levels honourable senators , who never repositories not perhaps entravés by the foreign conditions other than celles who acclaimed been établies yeas facilitate the bon déroulement of our travaux . 
health condition who is imposée here , according the wording direct the Government amendment , moved series form of censure , fell what sense that she moved series sorte of sober préalable auquel everything Senator should apply soumettre before the power introduce series motion . 
the article 2 of the rules said : 
" bill to Bill " : one bill to Bill of the Parliament , that he authorized private or public . 
health measure répond at unabated definition , and he not there has nothing to another streets the rules whose unabated motion of amendment puisse relever , at mon humble opinion . 
the senator Cools : 
honourable senators , I voudrais respond . 
without repeat everything what that I ai said , I mover that , yeas the study of the rappel at the rules , blunt mon intervention , business points that I ai Arising and Oceans textes that I ai invoqués soient commitments fell considération by Your Honour . 
before the répliquer at the senator Lynch - Staunton , I tiens at make remarquer that his objection me seems irrecevable . 
the elsewhere , he not has not su explain why Act motion is , according him , irrégulière . 
i déconseille at them honourable senators ' invoquer the rules streets the espoir of avoid the débattre of certaines questions importantes . 
i cannot prétends not that what authorized what that the senator Lynch - Staunton faisait or Partnerships the intent of make . 
however , if the senator Lynch - Staunton raises series objection , he is the Hon. duty , I believe , the us explain ses motifs and the citer them precedents and Oceans authorities Act lesquels he remembered fonde . 
the afternoon what that I ai heard and what that the senator Lynch - Staunton has said , he not the has not done streets what case - ci . 
mon amendment is bon . 
i cannot parle here anguishes of the content anguishes of the course - fondé of the bill to Bill fell se , contrairement at what that has done the senator Carstairs . 
the senator Carstairs supports the bill to Bill and discutait therefore the Hon. content and the Hon. well - fondé . 
yeas the instant , we analyzed saisis of a rappel at the rules . 
transport honourable senators , everything commentator His Honour , not are not fault savoir that we cannot devons not we fell equation at the Speaker of the Senate yeas trancher them questions relatives at Act Constitution and at the right constitutional . 
these issues repositories perhaps réglées by the whole of the Senate . 
mon amendment is non équivoque . 
i fell ai 3.25 copy at the senator Lynch - Staunton . 
i cannot ai not said that he tangibly him impose the foreign limits . 
honourable senators , with what Points at the rules , he not apply notional not to determine whether the senator Lynch - Staunton has the right to make what that he fact . 
what that we devons determine , what is whether the senator Lynch - Staunton procède of series manner who is conforme at Act Constitution of bearer place , at Act Constitution of our country , at them laws of our country and streets the interest of Majesty Majesty Act Queen . 
we awakened discussed abondamment of these issues . 
i vais lire series of them statements them more catégoriques never faites Act unabated question . 
unabated statement has been introductory at Act House of them Lords , the 30 March 1911 , by lord Lansdowne . 
transport honourable senators apply souviendront can - perhaps that what fut at the époque a debate clé . 
i remind at them honourable senators that he rereads has strokes at the Kingdom - Kingdom , at the époque , a problem of the fact of health Modified of them powers of them Lords and the Majesty Majesty regarding the octroi of health Assent Royal at them bills of Bill adoptés at Act House of them Commons . 
what fut a debate very important , honourable senators , and I me serais attendue at what that the senator Lynch - Staunton présente some precedents and information historiques . 
yeas the instant , I vais citer lord Lansdowne . 
he has said rejecting : 
bye our opinion , what is certainly porter atteinte at the right to the Parliament that the adopt , streets the genus or the another of them Houses , a bill to Bill who has the foreign repercussions Act them prérogatives of health crown , confirms , without the assentiment of health crown . 
honourable senators , the consent royal équivaut at the assentiment préalable . 
he ajoutait : 
i think that person cannot the contestera . 
we concluons also , the afternoon these precedents , that same if unabated Assent can perhaps obtenue at not regardless damned phase , health procedure normale is the Government obtain before the tabling of the bill to Bill No. 
health Seneca that I ai utilisée streets mon speech precedent shows clearly that he has been convenu that the consent royal should perhaps obtenu before the tabling of the bill to Bill No. 
toutes them sources faisant autorité ajoutent that he can perhaps obtenu , notamment by the foreign ministers agissant streets the framework of their responsibilities , at series phase ultérieure . 
he not done not to doubt that what debate apply Turcot since the foreign years . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton not we took not said to damned way he entend satisfaire at Act Assent Royal . 
til can try to agencer them things not regardless how ; however , the fact is that blunt initiative or everything bill to Bill Parliamentary proposant of modify Act prerogative Royal Canadian Majesty Majesty doit of thanking obtain his consent , what who is series another way of say that " justice Assent doit perhaps granted at the avance " . 
unabated coutume , honourable senators , has surveillance also streets a another field of health prerogative Royal , at savoir them initiatives Projections - Status crown . 
streets the case of health recommendation Royal , what is more difficult . 
confirms is prévu at them sections 53 and 54 of health Act BNA of 1867 . 
unabated recommendation doit perhaps introductory at Act House of them Commons before the tabling of the bill to Bill No. 
understandings at the consent royal , he can perhaps accordé more later . 
little regardless how til stares Act question , honourable senators , the fact is that person cannot can montrer of way convaincante and crédible that til can wheel series discussion at the Senate at the topic of the future of them powers of Majesty Majesty relatively at Act Assent Royal without consult the thanking the Governor General or Majesty Majesty Act reine she - even . 
what is specifically because that unabated question has been négligée and écartée these dernières years that I ai presented bearer amendment at Act motion Convey second reading , afin that a debate puisse apply amorcer Act Act question of savoir if the consent royal is necessary . 
he me seems that he tangibly davantage that foreign affirmations inutiles of the senator Carstairs or the Government Senator Lynch - Staunton . 
i ai at the least énoncé them precedents and Oceans facts historiques and I dispel give still much of other références if the debate apply Turcot . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
bye the Order , run he you plaît . 
senator Cools , I you ai interrompue because that I ai strokes the impression that you vouliez parler of the fond of the bill to Bill and not to the rappel at the rules . 
there has he ' other honourable who veulent intervene Act the rappel at the rules ? 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
til not touche not at Act Assent Royal . 
what not is certainly not we who ferons confirms . 
he remembered notional of series exigence BNA that we respectons . 
the bill to Bill move simply the permettre of express Act Assent Royal différemment , health form actuelle étant conservée . 
by conséquent , I believe that all levels fondements of health motion are irrecevables and that what is what that should déclarer Act Ruling . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
there has he ' other honourable senators who désirent intervene Act the rappel at the rules ? 
sinon , I prendrai Act question fell advisement . 
( adjournment of the debate fell attendant Act decision to the Speaker . ) 
routine legal and Constitutional 
Authorized at the committee of sit fell same time that the Senate 
leave rose been granted to mood at them motions : 
the Honourable Lorna Milne , pursuant at the avisdu 25 November 1999 , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional authorized authorized at sit à15 1:30 30 the Wednesday 1er December 1999 , even if the Senate seat at what moment - là , and that the application duparagraphe 95 ( 4 ) the Government Rules authorized suspendue at bearer regard . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I cannot répéterai not what that I ai said earlier of series once here . 
if I me oppose at what kind of Motion , what not is not that I veux remiss them chairmen of them committees . 
fell fact , I them plains because that they are at them prises with a horaire who them strength at sit at 3:15 1:30 30 them mercredis . 
he rereads has four committees streets unabated situation , whose gerrymandering of them Affairs Foreign , gerrymandering of them Banking and the Government trade , and gerrymandering of them Affairs legal and Constitutional . 
i cannot veux not say that he rereads has the foreign committees which are less importants that the other , but what are là some of them committees them more actifs . 
something a pardon has imposed a horaire who them strength at sit at 3:15 1:30 30 , sachant very well that he is arrivé more of series once recently that we siégions au - delà of 15 1:30 30 . We impotent same allés sometimes until at 5:30 hours ou18 hours . 
by conséquent , these committees repositories ask constamment at the Senate Act leave of sit fell same time that the Senate . 
why not can - til not refaire the horaire of them committees and the adapt at the horaire of the Senate at the instead of ask at the Senate to adapt his horaire at gerrymandering of them committees ? 
what is also simple that confirms . 
i comprends the senator Milne . 
the senator Kolber apply apprête at ask Act same leave , and I comprends why . 
what is our fault because that we awakened accepted a horaire who never works not well . 
we devrions adhere our calendar here and decide that , business mercredis , we lèverons Act postponement at 3:15 1:30 30 , somewhat regardless Act situation . 
what is what who Partnerships been convenu at the époque . 
now , we siégeons rarely the Monday night , but we voulons that royal postponement of the Wednesday authorized always courte . 
what system not works not . 
after them vacances , I hope that something a proposera a calendar more realistic that gerrymandering whose we disposons currently . 
yet series once , I exprime ma frustration , that much partagent , at mon notice . 
i am convaincu that if , at our Return fell February , the foreign changes not acclaimed not been apportés , til refusera of accorder Act leave yeas obliger the Senate at modify what calendar who , the blunt évidence , not works not . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I ai commitments Act parole Act dernière once that the senator Lynch - Staunton is intervenu Act unabated question , and I the fais still series once . 
i cannot am not fell désaccord with him . 
fell fact , I comprends fort well his argument . 
fell activist that Leader Deputy of the government at the Senate ? and I believe wheel Act collaboration of them senators ' fell opposite Act unabated question ? , I estimated that we cherchons at improve the calendar . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
the Honourable Senator Milne , seconded by the Honourable Senator Taylor , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional authorized authorized at sit à15 1:30 30 the Wednesday 1er December 1999 , even if the Senate seat at what moment - là , and that the application duparagraphe 95 ( 4 ) the Government Rules authorized suspendue at bearer regard . 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
banks and Commerce 
Authorized at the committee of sit fell same time that the Senate 
the Honourable Leo E . Kolber : 
honourable senators , the thanking , I tiens at thank the Opposition of the Opposition of ses observations . 
we cannot impotent that the poor senators travaillant streets them tranchées and we prenons our ordres . 
with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the paragraph 58 ( 1 ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Banking and the Government trade authorized authorized at sit at 3:15 1:30 30 today today , even if the Senate seat at what moment - là , and that the application of the paragraph 95 ( 4 ) the Government Rules authorized suspendue at bearer regard . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
is - what the agreement , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
Énergie , Environment and resource Natural 
motion visant at autoriser the committee at examiner Act Act canadienne Act Act protection of the Environment - Adjourned of the debate 
the Honourable Mira Spivak move , pursuant at the notice of Motion to the 2,500 November 1999 : 
that the Senate urge the government at entreprendre Act - Government - champ his review of health Act canadienne Act Act protection of the Environment and at confier Act first phase of bearer review at the Comité sénatorial Standing of the energy , the Government environment and the foreign resources Natural . 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing sénatorial of the energy , the Government environment and the foreign resources Natural entreprenne Act - Government - champ his review of health Act canadienne Act Act protection of the Environment commentator he is recommended unanimement streets the seventh report of the committee which is daté of the 8 September 1999 and who has been tabled at the Senate Committee lendemain . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
leave is - she granted to modify Act motion telle that Proposed by the Honourable Senator Spivak ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Spivak : 
i move that royal motion modifiée authorized inscrite at mon name . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion telle that modifiée ? 
the senator Spivak : 
honourable senators , unabated motion exhorant the government at entreprendre Act - Government - champ his review of health Act canadienne Act the Environment not is not ma way préférée of procéder , anguishes fell fact celle of them senators ' what side - ci of health House . 
we voulions power modify a bill to Bill who laisse terriblement at désirer before that he not authorized adopted . 
unfortunately , we cannot awakened not avoided improve the projetde bill C - 32 . 
til we took imposed Act clôture at two occasions , series once fell committee and series once here , at the Senate . 
he not we took same not been possible for us ensure that series certaine provision of the bill to Bill Partnerships well the same sense fell French and fell English . 
transport senators ' s another side acclaimed proposed streets their report majoritaire that the government entame the next review of the bill to Bill C - 32 immediately after his Adopted . 
confirms permettra at all levels Canadians to express their notice and the suivre them progress that fact the minister fell what who pertains the avancement and health definition of concepts commentator Act " rentabilité " , health " quasi - eliminating " , business " agreements gouvernementaux fell matière of environment " and the " principle of health prudence " . 
bye our opinion , laisser the train quitter the wharfinger puis ask at the conducteur of revert and the you say where paving the train not is not series way of make . 
we awakened the duty to us ensure the Day signification of these concepts and the veiller at what that these concepts soient clearly définis streets Act bill to fashion at what that they soient compréhensibles yeas all levels Canadians . 
we awakened heard the plaidoyer passionné of a former fonctionnaire , who we took asked to no not négliger of define what that he fallait hear by " cost - effectiveness " . 
he we took been asked to no not laisser them officials apply dépatouiller everything seuls when they cherchent at appliquer Act bill yeas protect Act health Public and the Environment . 
transport senators ' fell opposite voulaient make them things différemment and they we acclaimed therefore fact of them proposals . 
bye true say , series part of what that they acclaimed recommended not is not réalisable . 
the examination quinquennal , prévu at the article 343 , doit permettre of bye the entirety of them provisions of health law and his functioning . 
we cannot pouvons not Auditing by where the train is past before that he not ait effectué his parcours , but we pouvons everything of same bye the program of routing établi by the mécanicien . 
we pouvons we pencher Act them modalités of application of health law , envisagées by the minister . 
commentator the has proposed Act majority at the committee , we pouvons commencer by give at them Canadians Act possibility of express their standpoint of standpoint and ensuite surveiller the Evolution of them things . 
til not can traiter that nine substances by day , 365 days by year , or plusde 13 substances by day , if the snakes tient account the foreign days fériés and the foreign purposes of week . 
is - what that what is faisable ? 
vraisemblablement , certaines of these 23 40,000 substances not are more utilisées and what serait a exodus rallye that the chercher at them découvrir . 
yeas celles who the are still , the minister has the choice between two options . 
ensuite , business agents arresting try to make Act part Act more complex of the work , what is - at - say obtain them data who établissent if the exposition at series substance at series concentration donnée Act series period of time donnée is néfaste yeas them êtres humans or yeas the Environment . 
streets of nombreux case , there including yeas certaines of them few substances who faces trouvent Act Act list of them substances of interest prioritaire , business data of exposition are very difficiles at obtain . 
what is yeas unabated unique reason that several substances not acclaimed not been réglementées . 
health seconde option who faces offers at the minister BNA at Camera these étapes and at alléger the process . 
i know that , at least that he not choisisse unabated dernière option , certaines industries are prêtes at the pursue fell justice . 
he not serait not streets their interest that foreign agents classent their substances chemical commentator toxiques . 
i am désolée that what authorized something little complex , but he particulars much of time yeas rapporter all levels arguments and explanations who we acclaimed been fournis durant the process of what Bill of Bill No. 
i hope that you me croirez Act parole yeas what type of classement . 
that is - what that what arranged ? 
a process applicable or a process that certaines industries préfèrent . 
transport members of the committee feraient implementation useful , even apply they not teamwork that exposer what who fact problem . 
he serait also useful that the minister explique the Mifflin that he entend suivre yeas réaliser Act quasi - eliminating . 
our committee has received Act particulars of service streets laquelle a result ses hauts officials Partnerships wrote that royal quasi - eliminating , telle that the nouveau bill to Bill Act introduces , serait impossible at réaliser . 
we aimerions savoir exactly how the minister entend procéder yeas obtain the bons results . 
what is important yeas them Canadians , fell particular yeas ceux of the North . 
til préconise the model Heritage at them negotiations fell standpoint of élaborer series convention World Act Act reduction of them polluants organiques persistants . 
fell the absence of a treaty rigoureux , the Arctique Heritage continuera of Welfare the worst dépotoir at the world of déchets toxiques reassess that foreign BPC , business products of health désagrégation of the DDT and the other products chemical bioaccumulatifs persistant streets the air . 
by conséquent , when business delegates at them purposes of the treaty Act them POP apply réuniront fell March next at Bonn , the minister should perhaps loan at soumettre at the examination the model Heritage . 
the here là , we devrions wheel fact our devoirs and rose at them Canadians the opportunity to express their opinions . 
yeas of them reasons very practices , I move that bearer review immédiat ait instead before our meeting of the committee of the Senate . 
premièrement , the program of the committee of the another place is already flavour . 
he not has not yet succeeded at finishing a review of the system regarding Casual pesticides . 
the minister has promised series importante measure legislative regarding Casual cash fell danger and , with a little of luck , we devrions wheel at us pencher Act to them measures legislatures regarding the change climatique . 
our committee not has présentement not a gros arriéré of bills of Bill at And . 
deuxièmement , what is our committee which has been submitted at the bâillon and who has proposed that the examination commence the most quickly possible . 
troisièmement , the committee of the another place apply is intéressé by intermittence at Act Act canadienne Act Act protection of the Environment during six years . 
he remembered is well battu and , fell bout of piste , his standpoint of standpoint has been rejeté by a government which has listened them groups of pression of the industry . 
he serait fair to say that he has consenti all levels efforts possibles , the Government less yeas a certain time . 
the what side - ci of health House , the objective at term term remains the improve Act measure legislative . 
we voudrions between other things intervene yeas corriger the fact that royal measure legislative not exige not that the government adopte of them measures fell standpoint of éliminer graduellement not serait - what that series poignée of them elements toxiques them more polluants . 
these polluants are néfastes yeas all levels Canadians , and more particularly yeas them residents of the North . 
health law not exige not that the government diminishes a principle of précaution who signifie really something something . 
fell reality , he rereads has contradiction between them two languages Languages . 
til excludes them M of series participation at a nouveau committee Advisory attain . 
til not recognizes not them efforts consentis volontairement by the foreign companies responsables of the sector private . 
he not there has aucune measure tenant account the foreign concerns particulières regarding health health environnementale of them children . 
til reduced the power to the minister of the Environnement and til confie Act prise of decisions at the gouverneur fell council , particularly yeas what who is the foreign questions regarding Casual products of biotechnologie . 
til withdrew also the power to the minister of the Environnement of examiner them effects nocifs of products biotechniques . 
based what last standpoint , til can the espérer , the government torn at introduce at nouveau the bill to Bill C - 80 Act them foods . 
the foreign groups of interest analyzed that the nombreux scientific of the Department of health Health apply are opposés at what that the cabinet apply empare of the power to the minister of health Health Care protect them Canadians , car what is his duty . 
i hope that what Bill of Bill arranged reformulé yeas the better . 
we avions espéré And Act question during much more of hours at the committee before that the bill to Bill révisé not devienne bill . 
however , confirms not apply is not product and what is now the Government history ancienne . 
we invitons them senators ' fell opposite at appuyer their own recommendation and at réclamer a review exhaustif of health Act canadienne Act Act protection of the Environment by our committee ' more earlier possible . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
Mrs. the Honourable Senator Spivak accepterait - she of respond at series question ? 
the senator Spivak : 
yes . 
the senator Hays : 
health motion initiale of the Honourable Senator exhortait the government at prendre certaines measures . 
we awakened accepted that she authorized modifiée yeas that til réclame rather series study complète by the committee that the Honourable Senator préside . 
is - what là series something whose the committee has discussed ? 
fell of other termes , normally , a job of unabated nature complements generally of the committee at Act subsequently of ses discussions and the Hon. souhait of entreprendre series study spéciale . 
is - what the case fell the occurrence ? 
the senator Spivak : 
nay , commentator the Honourable Senator Hays the knows fort well . 
confirms apply reporte at series measure adoptée précédemment by the committee durant his review of health Act canadienne Act Act protection of the Environment . 
if the Senate souhaite Refer Act question at the committee , I think that the committee devra examiner Act question and see apply he can insérer unabated study streets his calendar . 
he is question of entreprendre a review . 
the last has commitments five years . 
what is fell function of dictatorship that I prétends that our committee should entreprendre bearer review rather than a committee of the another place who , commentator them honourable senators ' savent , aurait much of other things at And before that confirms not we parvienne . 
the senator Hays : 
honourable senators , I ignorais that til not Partnerships not discussed the Day motion at the committee . 
is - what that the senator Spivak could raise Act question at the committee Whole and we say apply he wants mener the study or non ? 
the senator Spivak : 
he conviendrait can - perhaps that something a ajourne the debate . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Taylor , the debate is adjourned . ) 
transport travaux of the Senate 
Points at the rules 
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin : 
the intent is derrière unabated expression . 
i tiens at citer here the Prime paragraph of the commentaire 485 of health sixth edition of health Jurisprudence Parliamentary of Beauchesne : 
the utilisation of expressions non parliamentarians can perhaps signalée at Act House by the chairman or by no regardless breaching MP . 
the Member who fell prend the initiative doit invoquer the rules and non raise series question of privilege . 
fell what who pertains what that I considère commentator series expression non Parliamentary , I voudrais me réserver here the right to examiner the countdown rendu and the revert Act unabated affair at Act next postponement of the Senate . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , the senator Corbin request , fell fact , at what that a Points at the rules authorized différé . 
commentator we the savons , the rules wants that when til has referred invoquer the rules , til the circulation at Act first opportunity . 
what is what that the senator has done today today . 
is - what the agreement yeas that he poursuive tomorrow , series once that he fingertips read the text ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Cools : 
nay . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
the senator Cools not is not to agree . 
the senator Corbin : 
health human who has said " nay " no the has not done at partir of his fauteuil . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
he not there has not agree yeas that the study of health motion authorized reportée at tomorrow . 
the senator Corbin : 
your Honour , étant rose that the commentaire introduces that " the utilisation of expressions non parliamentarians can perhaps signalée at Act House by the Speaker or by no regardless breaching MP " , puis - I propose that you preniez Act you to tribute series decision streets unabated affair ? 
his Honour the Speaker : 
the Points at the rules is recevable . 
a hon. Senator me has asked to examiner the text and the determine whether them rules acclaimed been enfreintes . 
i me commits at the make . 
Énergie , Environment and resource Natural 
Authorized at the committee of And of them questions liées at his mandate 
the Honourable Mira Spivak , pursuant at the avisdu 24 November 1999 , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of the energy , the Government environment and the foreign resources Natural , fell conformité with the article 86 ( 1 ) p ) the Government Rules , authorized authorized at And them questions who palatable survenir occasionnellement apply rapportant at the energy , at the Environment and at them resources Natural fell General ; and 
that the Comité circulation report at the Senate at the most tardle 31 March 2000 . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
Authorized at the committee of engager of the staff and the run déplacer - Adjourned of the debate 
the Honourable Mira Spivak , pursuant at the avisdu 24 November 1999 , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of the energy , the Government environment and the foreign resources Natural authorized habilité at retenir them services of advisors , techniciens , employees of office or other elements nécessaires yeas examiner them bills of Bill , health seams of bills of Bill and Oceans forecasts budgétaires who him acclaimed been déférés ; and 
that the Comité authorized authorized at apply déplacer at travers the Canada and at the abroad at them purposes of reassess examinations . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , you plaît - he ' adopt Act motion ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . ) 
Authorized at the committee of permettre Act diffusion of ses deliberations by foreign media électroniques 
the Honourable Mira Spivak , pursuant at the avisdu 24 November 1999 , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of the energy , the Government environment and the foreign resources Natural authorized habilité at permettre the reportage of ses deliberations translated by foreign media of information électroniques , fell dérangeant the least possible ses travaux . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
( the Senate apply ajourne at 14 hours tomorrow . ) 
debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
2e Session , Session Session , 
volume 138 , Issue 15 
the Thursday 2 December 1999 
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker 
table of them Contents 
STATEMENTS STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
health Journée international of them persons disabilities 
health Francophonie 
health Journée national of commémoration 
the tenth anniversary of health tragedy survenue at the École Polytechnique 
the Traité international interdisant them mines shore 
second anniversary 
health quarantième rencontre Annual tenue at Quebec 
the Environment 
the Manitoba - Possibility dérivation of them waters of the Lake Devil fell Dakota of the North 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
bill to Bill Act Act dénonciation streets Act function Public 
first Reading 
section canadienne of the Church morave of America 
the Group Inter Canada - U.S. - U.S. 
depository of the report of health quarantième meeting Annual tenue at Quebec 
fisheries 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at And of them questions relatives at his mandate 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at engager of the staff 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at permettre Act diffusion of ses deliberations by the foreign afford électroniques 
the Estimates for them Estimates yeas 1999 - 2000 
Presented and impression fell Printed of the Rapport of the Comité of them finances nationales Act the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
transport transport and Oceans Communications 
the SOWIND of rescue of Inter - Quebecer - Possibility possibility of series study by the committee sénatorial 
transport transport 
the v. of them operations of health company aérienne Inter - Quebecer - Comments consequences of the décret commitments fell vertu of the article 47 of health Act Act them transport at the Canada 
transport Affairs Indian 
health Nova Scotia Nova Scotia Changes tentatives of suicide streets Act contingency of Membertou - Request for measures concrete and proactives yeas help them communaut aboriginal 
health Nova Scotia Nova Scotia Changes tentatives of suicide streets Act contingency of Membertou - Possibility request for them leaders of health bunch of rencontrer the minister 
health health 
transport transfers to fund at them provinces 
transport finances 
the report of the Auditor General - Ex effectiveness of health planning budgétaire at term term 
answer différée at series question orale 
transport Affairs Foreign 
the increase the foreign Estimates for immobilisation streets the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) - Possibility possibility of ouvrir of nouvelles ambassades 
orders OF THE 
the speech of the Trône 
motion of Adopted of the Adresse fell response - Continued of the debate 
bill to Bill facilitant Act prise of certaines decisions médicales 
second reading - Continued of the debate 
bill to Bill Act them perquisitions and Oceans saisies internationales 
second reading - Adjourned of the debate 
privileges , Rules and procedures 
third report of the committee - Retrait of the article 
health freedom religieuse fell China fell report with them pactes internationaux of them Nations Nations 
inquiry - Continued of the debate 
the Estimates for them Estimates for 1999 - 2000 
notice of Motion Convey Authorized at the committee of them finances nationales at And them Budgets of them Estimates - Adjourned of the debate 
motion of amendment 
finances nationales 
Authorized at the committee of diffuser ses deliberations by the foreign afford électroniques 
Authorized at the committee of engager of the staff 
adjournment 
the SENATE 
the Thursday 2 December 1999 
health postponement is ouverte at 14 hours , the Speaker étant at the fauteuil . 
prayers . 
health Journée international of them persons disabilities 
the Honourable Brenda Robertson : 
honourable senators , tomorrow , the 3 December , fingertips instead Act Journée international of them persons disabilities . 
transport Canadians apply joindront at the foreign million for persons streets the world yeas celebrate them progress accomplis streets the file Whalers touchant them persons disabilities . 
the Senate to the Canada there participe . 
all levels Canadians , but especially them Canadians handicapés , comptent Act we yeas promote their vision of series society where the equality of them chances yeas all serait series reality . 
transport senators are , well course , everything at fact favorables at unabated vision , and today today represents a another not to more toward Act concrétisation of unabated vision . 
transport senators apply souviennent without doubt that fell 1998 , we ourselves impotent engagés at élaborer series strategy visant at improve the access at the Senate to them Canadians handicapés and at their permettre of participate davantage at them Affairs - Government Senate . 
confirms comprend them visitors , business Canadians désireux of apply renseigner Act the Senate , health participation at them travaux of them committees , business employees of the Senate and Oceans honourable senators ' unabated House who are handicapés . 
we awakened opté yeas series approach at three volets : one guide of the senator Act the invalidité , a plan to Action and the foreign sittings of Training and the sensibilisation . 
the " Guide of the senator Act the invalidité " is a document of référence at the usage of us all ; he gives the foreign information and the foreign advice Act Act way of respond at them questions that apply posent some Canadians at the topic of various déficiences . 
what is also a guide practice which confirms our role drives streets Act research of the equality yeas all and the foreign changes at apporter at the level originators . 
he is the genus Reading rapide and I the déposerai at the Senate Act week next . 
i observance at them senators that what guide arranged also disposable Act the Intranet of the Senate afin of fell permettre Act Reading with assistance technologique . 
the text paraîtra soon fell braille . 
the second volet comprend a plan to Action fell matière of invalidité , who faces révèle realistic and gives the foreign results mesurables . 
some of our colleagues and collaborateurs at the Senate acclaimed sparked of élaborer what plan , encadrés by series team of experts of health condition of them handicapés . 
transport questions are complex and the Mifflin arranged relatively exhaustif , fell what that he donnera of the information , traitera of health situation of the Employment , the Government assistance technical , the foreign facilities and the Day security . 
what document fell is at them premiers stades of his élaboration . 
the Mifflin Plan Action of the Senate to the Canada not modifiera not our environment , anguishes of manner tangible , anguishes of the day at the lendemain , but he could , fell time opportun , serve the example at them other instances dirigeantes . 
i am impatiente of me join at the senator Carstairs yeas you introduce what plan to Action fell February 2000 . 
the third volet of our strategy door Act Act conduct of sittings of Training and the sensibilisation at Act condition of them handicapés , comprend a complément of information sur them questions of actualité brûlante , series list of them summarizing acteurs of unabated community and the foreign informations Act them perspectives and Oceans barriers streets the next millennium . 
the document explicatif arranged also loan fell February 2000 . 
honourable senators , voilà how we pouvons give at the whole of them Canadians Act possibility of participate fully at them travaux of the Senate . 
he not is that fair that , fell unabated veille of health Journée international of them persons disabilities , we renouvelions our commitment at the hook of the intégration and the Government equality yeas all . 
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs : 
honourable senators , the senator Robertson apply is montrée very généreuse at mon place today today , fell unabated veille of health Journée international of them persons disabilities . 
bye various occasions , she has spoke at Act first human of the pluriel . 
honourable senators , he tangibly understand that what is at the senator Brenda Robertson that we devons unabated Action . 
i ai only participated at Act production of the document which you arranged release Act week next and at the élaboration of the Mifflin Plan Action that you aurez more later . 
the other persons importantes acclaimed participated at unabated Action ; thin are guarding at Act gallery north . 
if thin are guarding at Act gallery north , honourable senators , what is because that unabated gallery is now accessible at them persons disabilities . 
are présents at unabated tribuneM. Skip Brooks , Rand Lawrence Euteneier , Rand Jim Turner , Ms Claudette Fleury - Morena , Ms Pina DiFranco and Mrs. Julie Richer . 
are absents Ms Marie Trudeau , Ms Bernette Quade etM. Luc Clairoux . 
i thank Mrs. the senator Robertson on ouvrir Act voie at unabated initiative . 
health Francophonie 
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier : 
honourable senators , I parle often of health Francophonie international . 
also , several persons me acclaimed asked what that guardian Act Francophonie . 
confirms me remind series experience , he rereads has few years passées , Robbie that I ai strokes the plaisir of rencontrer Valéry Giscard De Estaing , the former chairman of health France . 
i étais accompagné of mon colleague , the Honourable Senator De Ban . 
i ai posé Act question àM. Giscard of Estaing , at savoir what that représentait Act Francophonie . 
he me has answered : " Ce is Act France ! " 
i ai including that he rereads Partnerships a malentendu , because that yeas moi , health Francophonie , what not is not Act France , what is much more than confirms . 
Robbie I ai cherché and trouvé Act definition that Seneca : 
health Francophonie is the thanking Act community of them Peoples who , at the foreign degrees various , parlent or utilisent the French streets their lives national or streets their relationship internationales . 
but she is also a whole of organizations and the associations , Change or non Change , engagées streets of them sectors of activity and the foreign domaines of interest commun at them members of health community francophone . 
since the avènement of them Sommets of health Francophonie , who réunissent them chefs of State and the government ' Affairs country rose the French fell sharing , health Francophonie is devenue a instead of dialogue policy and the échanges who sert at Act mobilisation of them resources nécessaires at them activities of health cooperation of them Peoples . 
honourable senators , I believe that unabated definition is exacte . 
health Journée national of commémoration 
the tenth anniversary of health tragedy survenue at the École Polytechnique 
the Honourable Catherine S . Callbeck : 
honourable senators , the 6 December 1999 Gallery the 10e anniversary of health tragedy survenue at the École Polytechnique of Montreal . 
the 6 December , he rereads has 10 years , a man armé of a fusil has pénétré streets the école and tué 14 women simply because that thin étaient of them women . 
bearer événement is a rappel cruel at all levels Canadians to the fact that royal violence introductory at them women is a problem by too répandu . 
unabated tragedy we took obligés at prendre conscience of the importance of what problem and has motivé our efforts fell standpoint of allegiances end at Act violence introductory at them women . 
transport Canadians acclaimed acted fell désignant the 6 December Act Journée national of commémoration and the Action against Act violence introductory at them women . 
bye présent , each year , business Canadians apply souviennent and rendent tribute non only at them 14 women who are mortes what day to 1989 , but also at them women who vivent all levels days Subcommittee Act threat of health violence and at celles who acclaimed been victims of mood of violence délibérés . 
til has also organized the foreign events commentator Act Campagne of them rubans blancs , who encourage foreign men at arborer a ruban white and at apply engager at not never commettre of mood of violence against foreign women anguishes at fermer them yeux or at demeurer muets Act what kind of mood . 
the Council Advisory of health situation of health wife of the Île - du - Prince Edward Édouard has overburdened Act foot series Campagne of them rubans violets who famous his eighth anniversary unabated year . 
streets the framework of unabated campaign , til distribue approximately 8 40,000 rubans violets and the foreign cartes at them residents of the island . 
what program contributes at sensibiliser davantage Act population at Act violence at the hook of them women and the foreign children . 
the government federal and Oceans governments provinciaux at the Canada acclaimed also commitments to them measures récentes . 
health Declaration of Iqaluit , proclamée simultanément , the 6 December 1998 , streets toutes them provinces and all levels territories to a bout at the another of the country , reflects Act determination of them governments at allegiances end at Act violence against foreign women . 
what are là of them measures positives , but he remains yet much at make . 
unabated year , the 6 December , I hope that we prendrons all the time non only to remind the souvenir of toutes them women victims of violence , but the tangibly at the foreign measures concrete at prendre yeas avoid Act violence against foreign women . 
the Traité international interdisant them mines shore 
second anniversary 
the Honourable Douglas Roche : 
honourable senators , what is today today ' second anniversary of the Traité international interdisant them mines shore . 
the treaty of 1997 interdisant the utilisation , health production , the stockage and the transfer of them mines shore antipersonnel has been ratifié by 89 country and signed by 136 . 
fell September 1998 , 40,000 country specialist ratifié the treaty , the sorte that the treaty is became bill international the 1er March 1999 . 
the treaty témoigne non only to a commitment at libérer the world of them mines shore , but is the fruit of health poursuite of objectives humanitaires of health share of the government Heritage and the Government Minister of them Foreign Foreign , Rand Axworthy . 
we devrions also applaudir the work of Mines Action Canada and the other agencies animés of them mêmes ideas who poursuivent their efforts afin of bâtir series culture of health peace . 
the Canada doit maintain ses efforts yeas bâtir series culture of health peace and yeas ensure a world fair and without danger yeas them children of the world who , too often , are them innocentes victims of them effects horribles of health War , also well during that after them conflits . 
the Group Inter Canada - U.S. - U.S. 
health quarantième rencontre Annual tenue at Quebec 
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein : 
honourable senators , fell quality of coprésident of health delegation canadienne , I présenterai more later today today ' report of health quarantième rencontre Annual of the Group Inter Canada - U.S. - U.S. , who has strokes instead at Quebec ' s 20 at the 24 May 1999 . 
fell tenant unabated year Act rencontre at Quebec , we awakened suivi Act trend établie at the opportunity to series another rencontre rose strokes instead at the Canada he rereads has two years at Act Forteresse of Louisbourg at the Cape - Cape and rose connu his apogée at Act Room of health Confederation at Charlottetown , streets the Île - du - Prince Edward Édouard . 
fell quality of coprésident of health delegation , I widow that everyone fell échangeant with our colleagues trillion , we their fassions better understanding the milieu Heritage and that we their donnions series lesson concrète of history canadienne . 
we awakened strokes of them échanges ouverts and francs Act Act multitude of problems which marquent our relations bilatérales . 
we cannot devons never forget that , well that foreign factors of friction commerciale between our two country soient instantanément relevés by foreign media , 97p. cent of our trade bilatéral apply déroulent of way peaceful , effective and rentable yeas our two country . 
these links of work étroits with our colleagues on the Congress of them States - U.S. we aident at résoudre them problems which surgissent sometimes referred bearer place . 
a result these problems , and non the moindre , is Act récente decision to the executive validate of repousser Act date of entrée fell vigueur of the article 110 of health Act Act the Immigration and health naturalisation of them States - U.S. , authorized series proposal fell vertu of laquelle arranged exigé a visas yeas entrer at them States - U.S. . 
transport questions that we awakened soulevées at the opportunity des38e , 39e and 40e meetings annuelles of our group acclaimed entraîné Act Presented of two bills of Bill of interest private at the Congress . 
honourable senators , til has accordé series grande attention at them embouteillages croissants at them passages frontaliers , who are attribuables at the increase fulgurante and croissante of the trade at the surveillance of them five dernières years and the foreign chevauchements of jurisdiction who there apparaissent . 
transport coprésidents and the foreign Members acclaimed recently participated at Washington at series conference of health Can - Am Border Trade Alliance . 
i vais introduce at the Senate a report Act unabated meeting at the surveillance of them prochains days . 
honourable senators , I query series once the most you encourage all at lire the abrégé of them questions who faces trouve streets the report which arranged tabled a little more later , at devenir members of unabated association and at travailler actively with us fell standpoint of accroître our relations with our colleagues trillion yeas a future bénéfique yeas our two country . 
transport questions who we rapprochent are more nombreuses that celles who we divisent . 
pourtant , our relations commerciales exigent series vigilance constante and series diligence reasonable . 
permettez - moi of thank mon coprésident Heritage , Joe Comuzzi , the Government another place , our responsible for them employees , Carol Chafe , our coprésidents trillion , the sénateurFrank Murkowski of the Alaska and the representative Amo Houghton of the state of York York , their staff and all levels honourable senators yeas their merveilleuse cooperation streets the interest of our two grands country . 
we comptons well that the Senate joue a role active streets all these travaux lors of futures meetings . 
the Environment 
the Manitoba - Possibility dérivation of them waters of the Lake Devil fell Dakota of the North 
the Honourable Janis Johnson : 
honourable senators , I voudrais attirer your attention Act them events who faces produisent at the Manitoba at the topic of the bill to dérivation of them waters of the Lake Devil . 
what is a name effrayant yeas a bill to aménagement hydraulique effrayant . 
the state of the Dakota of the North introduces déverser the water fell too of the Lake Devil streets Act Newcastle Cross . 
commentator you the savez can - perhaps , health Newcastle Cross traverse Act border yeas entrer at the Manitoba and complements apply jeter streets the Lake Winnipeg . 
health Newcastle Cross is the habitat of something 50 cash of poissons of water douce and Oceans biologistes considèrent that she is Act second voie of water Act more rich at the Canada after the fleuve Saint - Lawrence . 
bye cause of them problems of flood at the Lake Devil , the state of the Dakota of the North wants creuser series factual of drainage of three miles of term who aboutirait streets Act Newcastle Cross . 
the Lake Devil is heavily salin and he derogation of them products chemical toxiques . 
something more importante , til there retrouve of them poissons extremely agressifs and without potentiel commercial who are étrangers at them waters Forces . 
these cash of poissons appartiennent at the bassin hydrographique of the golfe of the Mexico . 
health Newcastle Cross , commentator toutes them rivières of the Manitoba , run discredit streets the bassin hydrographique of the Arctique . 
these bassins hydrographiques are divisés by series hauteur naturelle and their cash respective are demeurées séparées since 10 40,000 years . 
the introduction of them poissons of the Lake Devil streets Act Newcastle Cross serait also risquée that the introduction of health peace fell Australia . 
fell activist that Senator of the Manitoba , propriétaire of a terrain riverain of the Lake Winnipeg and member of the group of monitoring of the Lake Winnipeg , I dispel you garantir that confirms paving devenir a bill very controversé . 
the Lake Winnipeg fact already opposite at the graves threats . 
health régulation of the Lake at the foreign purposes hydroélectriques contributes at them inondations and at the érosion of them berges . 
transport niveaux of water artificiellement élevés acclaimed virtually détruit them marais of the Lake Netley , autrefois légendaires . 
what Bill could devenir the clou streets the cercueil of the one of our most grands lacs Airports . 
i am heureuse of see that the government federal apply intéresse finally at Act question . 
streets series statement that he has introductory the month last , he has said that he not autoriserait aucune diversion who could constituer series threat yeas them waters Forces . 
however , the Prime Minister Gary Doer of the Manitoba has visited recently the site proposed and he has announced at his Return that the Dakota of the North comptait traiter the bill fell priority , prévoyant commencer Act construction blocks the month of October next . 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
bill to Bill Act Act dénonciation streets Act function Public 
first Reading 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) présente the bill to Bill S - 13 , Act visant at favoriser Act prevention of them conduites répréhensibles streets Act function Public fell établissant a framework yeas the education fell what who has trait at them practices conformes at the Ethics fell milieu of work , the treatment of them allegations of conduites répréhensibles and health protection of them dénonciateurs . 
( the bill to Bill is read series first once . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series second once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Kinsella , health second reading of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement . ) 
section canadienne of the Church morave of America 
bill to Bill private amend Act bill constituant fell human morale - Première Reading 
the Honourable Nicholas W . Taylor présente the projetde bill S - 14 , Act amend Act bill constituant fell human morale the Council of them Veterans of health section canadienne of the Church morave of America . 
( the bill to Bill is read series first once . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series second once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Taylor , health second reading of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to the mardi7 December 1999 . ) 
the Group Inter Canada - U.S. - U.S. 
depository of the report of health quarantième meeting Annual tenue at Quebec 
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to déposer , streets them two languages Languages , the report of health quarantième meeting Annual of the Group Inter Canada - U.S. - U.S. who faces is tenue at Quebec , the Government 20 at the 24 May 1999 . 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at And of them questions relatives at his mandate 
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that Tuesday next , the 7 December 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them fisheries authorized authorized at And , afin of introduce a report Act to them questions relatives at the industry to them fisheries ; 
that the Comité circulation report at the most later le12 December 2000 ; and 
that the Comité authorized authorized , nonobstant them practices habituelles , at déposer his report auprès of the Greffier of the Senate if the Senate not seat not , and that ledit report authorized réputé wheel been tabled at the Senate . 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at engager of the staff 
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that Tuesday next , the 7 December 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them fisheries authorized habilité at retenir them services of advisors , techniciens , employees of office or other elements nécessaires yeas examiner them bills of Bill , health seams of bills of Bill and Oceans forecasts budgétaires who him acclaimed been déférés . 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at permettre Act diffusion of ses deliberations by the foreign afford électroniques 
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that Tuesday next , the 7 December 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them fisheries authorized habilité at permettre the reportage of ses deliberations translated by foreign media of information électroniques , fell dérangeant the least possible ses travaux . 
the Estimates for them Estimates yeas 1999 - 2000 
Presented and impression fell Printed of the Rapport of the Comité of them finances nationales Act the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) 
leave rose been granted to revert at Act Presented of Reports from committees permanents or spéciaux : 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to introduce the second report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them finances nationales who door Act the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) yeas 1999 - 2000 . 
i request that the report authorized imprimé fell Printed at them Journals of the Senate to today today . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
is - what the agreement , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when étudierons - we what report ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Murray , the study of the report is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement . ) 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
transport transport and Oceans Communications 
the SOWIND of rescue of Inter - Quebecer - Possibility possibility of series study by the committee sénatorial 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at Act patron of the committee sénatorial Standing of them transport and the foreign Communications . 
if yes , that has he said regarding health situation financière of dapper company ? 
sinon , prostituted - you the intent of hear the témoignage deM. Myhill ? 
the Honourable Lise Bacon : 
honourable senators , the committee not has not yet fact report car he not has not terminé ses travaux . 
we allons sit Act week next and when the report arranged terminé , I the présenterai at unabated House . 
the senator Kinsella : 
your committee , commentator the committee of the another place , has he the intent of And unabated situation very grave or apply notional - he ' series affair courante of the committee ? 
the senator Bacon : 
honourable senators , our committee has received a Order of referred and the mandate of unabated House is respecté by the committee . 
what is what that we cynicism fell what moment and when we aurons terminé , we déposerons the report . 
transport transport 
the v. of them operations of health company aérienne Inter - Quebecer - Comments consequences of the décret commitments fell vertu of the article 47 of health Act Act them transport at the Canada 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I ai series question supplementary of more yeas the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
Seneca a passage of health second page of unabated letter : 
he not done nil doubt that Inter - Quebecer is Act victim of political and the measures conçues yeas serve them interests of other stakeholders of the sector , whose several acclaimed advantage at what that Inter - Quebecer disparaisse . 
we ourselves attendons at what that foreign shareholders of Inter - Quebecer insistent yeas that we demandions at our lawyer of examiner Act situation fell detail and the prendre toutes them measures judiciaires and other at our provision yeas rectifier Act situation . 
damned is Act Position of the government at the hook of dapper responsibility yeas Act difficulty that the chairman of Inter - Quebecer said éprouver by subsequently of them events who acclaimed suivi the décret commitments at them termes of the article 47 of health Act Act them transport at the Canada ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
i thank the Honourable Senator of dapper question . 
i cannot ai not strokes the opportunity to And carefully Act letter of the chairman of Inter - Quebecer anguishes dapper statement regarding health situation of dapper company . 
apply he think wheel a motif yeas intenter of them poursuites against the government ' s Canada , I am certain that he the fera . 
i ignore the ampleur of them difficulties Projections that Inter - Quebecer éprouve currently or éprouvait before that he authorized question of recourir at the article 47 . 
i cannot know not if these difficulties Projections datent of before what Points or whether thin are attribuables at the other factors relatifs at the exploitation of unabated company . 
health responsibility to the government ' s Canada has been énoncée clearly by the minister of them Transport when he has décrit the principle according lequel the service at them small communities Forces is protégé and continuera of Welfare protégé . 
he is difficult to say if unabated responsibility apply étend at the fate of series company particulière streets of them circumstances data . 
the government and the minister acclaimed clearly établi them principles of their Action . 
i cannot vais not them repeat , car I am certain that the Honourable Senator connaît all levels principles which guideront the Action of the government . 
transport Affairs Indian 
health Nova Scotia Nova Scotia Changes tentatives of suicide streets Act contingency of Membertou - Request for measures concrete and proactives yeas help them communaut aboriginal 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
health week dernière , at Sydney , fell Nova Scotia Nova , four children , âgés of 9 at 1:30 years , are allés streets Act forêt streets their contingency , déterminés at allegiances brutalement end at their days . 
two garçons of health bunch Membertou , third contingency Mi' kmaq fell importance of health province , laughed really unsuccessfully of apply enlever Act life fell apply during at a tree - a with series corde at linge and the another with series corde . 
health police and Oceans other children acclaimed succeeded at couper them cordes at time . 
the foreign communities are fell crisis everywhere at the Canada . 
the foreign children aboriginal , the foreign children Canadians apply tuent . 
according series study réalisée fell 1997 at the University of Toronto , the rate annual of them suicides chez them aboriginal âgés of 15 at 24 years is the approximately 110 yeas cent 40,000 residents - fell comparaison of 25 suicides yeas cent 40,000 residents chez them persons of the same group of age streets the rest of health population . 
Tuesday , the council and the Opposition of health bunch Membertou acclaimed imploré the Department of them Foreign Indian to them help fell finançant adéquatement of them programs of counselling destinés at them parents and at them children aboriginal . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I am at the courant of health situation générale at laquelle the senator has done allusion . 
i cannot am however not at the courant of them details precise of them incidents fell question . 
whereupon that he fell authorized , the challenge that we posent of them communities commentator Membertou , and he rereads has the foreign communities of what kind gentleman little everywhere streets the country , is réel and existe since the foreign decades , voire since the foreign centuries . 
the government ' s Canada tente of relever what challenge of series way constructive , at the moyen of them nombreux programs offerts by the Department . 
i am course that the minister fell question examinera seriously them demandes présentées by foreign representatives of Membertou . 
fell fact , I hope me entretenir with him and with few - uns of them representatives of unabated collectivité , at the surveillance of them prochains days . 
health Nova Scotia Nova Scotia Changes tentatives of suicide streets Act contingency of Membertou - Possibility request for them leaders of health bunch of rencontrer the minister 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
honourable senators , he is interesting that the Leader of the government ait spoke of the minister of them Foreign Indian and the Government North Heritage , Rand Robert Nault , car , commentator he the knows , the council and the Opposition of health bunch Membertou acclaimed asked at rencontrer directly the minister . 
the minister is - he loan at accéder at unabated requête ? 
if yes , when ? 
streets them few weeks at venir ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I cannot ai learned that few minutes before the venir at the Senate that series rencontre Partnerships been demandée . 
i vais make mon possible yeas facilitate them things . 
fell last ressort , health decision appartient at the minister him ? same , but I know that he voudra heed account the foreign circumstances which entourent unabated request and that he rereads there accéder blocks that possible . 
health health 
transport transfers to fund at them provinces 
the Honourable Jean - Claude Rivest : 
honourable senators , I voudrais ask at the minister apply he has the intent of sensibiliser ses colleagues on the Council of them ministers at a result them problems majeurs of toutes them regions at the Canada , at savoir the funding for them services of health , the foreign services Cultural and the Government education ? 
if til bed them newspapers or whether til suit Act situation streets them hospitals of chacune of them provinces of the Canada , til constate that foreign governments of them provinces are at them prises with the foreign difficulties majeures of submarine - funding . 
unabated pénurie of resources Projections yeas soutenir Act quality of them care of at somewhat close all levels établissements hospitaliers at the country amène series insuffisance of staff and the équipements , a encombrement of them wards of emergency , series reduction of them resources and the Government staff oeuvrant auprès of them persons seniors , and cetera . 
the government federal jouit and dispose of surplus considérables . 
bye the instead of allegiances Act foot of them bills which présentent a certain interest , commentator by example them scholarships to the millennium streets the field of the education or , recently , a program yeas combattre the diabetes , the minister not think he not that he serait time that the government Heritage consacre series part extremely importante of ses surplus at a transfer at them governments of them provinces ? 
fell more of permettre the bon functioning of our regime federal and health fourniture adéquate of services at the whole of health population , what transfer of them surplus permettrait at these governments of assumer of series way décente their responsibilities Constitutional streets the field of health health , the foreign services Cultural and the Government education . 
these needs constitute Act basic of the bon functioning of our society . 
is - what that he not serait not time that the government ' s Canada reconnaisse unabated request pressante who him is adressée by the whole of them regions Forces ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
transport challenges are the taille fell part at cause of series increase considérable of health request , who tient at a certain number of factors , whose the moindre not is not Act démographie . 
bye the surveillance of health next decade , business factors demographic poseront always a grave problem . 
the government federal has well réagi streets the budget of 1999 , but I cannot songerais not a odyssey instant at say at the senator that he not there has not to grands challenges who we attendent . 
the field of health health arranged can - perhaps well gerrymandering where them challenges uncovered them more redoutables yeas the government federal and Oceans provinces at the surveillance of them ten prochaines years . 
the senator Rivest : 
the government ' s Canada , fell more of them other priorities that he can retenir streets the utilisation of these surplus , not could - he not effectuer , the genus way franche and directe , a transfer significatif of funds at them governments of them provinces afin that thin puissent make opposite at them requirements extremely pressantes of the field of health health ? 
you prostituted been Minister of them Foreign payroll . 
you saviez very well that without the foreign fund 1.2 , who never pouvaient provenir that the Government government Heritage , you étiez incapable of respond at them needs pressants of the field of health health . 
series assistance significative and substantielle of the government Heritage permettra at them governments of them provinces of satisfaire these needs . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I the ai said already , since a 2000 approximately , the government has commitments to them measures yeas restore the importantes impotent of the funding versé at them provinces . 
bye mon humble opinion however , he not suffit not to augmenter the funding . 
confirms équivaut at alimenter without cesse series request illimitée . 
i believe that he faudra hausser the funding car Act request continues to augmenter and that he faudra also acquérir Act ability to allegiances at the standpoint of them approches innovatrices understandings at Act Benefit - Provincial care of health and find the foreign solutions brillantes at bearer regard . 
a example of the commitment to the présent government is the nouveau funding substantiel of health research fell health . 
the government has done Evidence of a commitment remarkable . 
i ai well confidence that he continuera of the make at measure that we avançons . 
the Honourable Roch Bolduc : 
honourable senators , I cannot voudrais not pursue indéfiniment what debate . 
the genus share , the government investit of them fund streets Act research medical and , the another share , the lendemain , he announcement Act creation of a program yeas Act dystrophie musculaire and , the surlendemain , a another program yeas series another illness . 
the government federal , what faisant , définit them priorities of them care of health . 
what not is not his role . 
make confirms at the détriment of them responsibilities of them provinces is unacceptable ! 
you not pourrez not convince our people that unabated solution is acceptable . 
the government federal , fell somme , run ingère streets Act management of them care of health . 
he définit that tel service is the most urgent and non not a another . 
what not is not reasonable . 
the government federal has the foreign things more importantes at make at a level more élevé . 
his role is the répartir them resources at the country . 
he has the grands rôles at play streets Act policy international , health policy Monetary , and cetera . 
health population not the supportera not . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , the senator has well reason . 
health Benefit - Provincial care of health has been and demeurera without doubt series responsibility provinciale . 
however , what serait series mistake of say that the government federal not has the another role at play that gerrymandering of sign a chèque . 
fell fact , health Act canadienne Act Act health is probably Act measure legislative Act more influente of everyone the country fell matière of care of health . 
the government federal has a role at play . 
he not is not at them premières lines of health Benefit - Provincial care , car what role appartient at them provinces , I fell conviens . 
what is why the funding by the government federal - Status research and certaines nouvelles initiatives of the kind uncovered utiles ; thin permettront at them provinces of relever them challenges Act what plan . 
the senator Bolduc : 
honourable senators , I ai the sentiment that foreign officials fédéraux of the Department of health Health apply disent that foreign " gars " at Toronto , at Vancouver and at Quebec not familiar not confirms ; til paving their say : where is - what that confirms press ? 
what guardian fair a appéritif . 
transport finances 
the report of the Auditor General - Ex effectiveness of health planning budgétaire at term term 
the Honourable Roch Bolduc : 
commentator he the has done streets the past , the Auditor General has said to nouveau at the Parliament that a horizon of planning of two at five years , what is well too court yeas power heed account the foreign consequences at term term of them choice budgétaires that we cynicism , notamment streets series situation where Act population vieillit , with toutes them repercussions that confirms comporte . 
honourable senators , confirms not pertains not the établissement of objectives anguishes the atteinte of these derniers . 
he remembered notional of connaître them consequences at term term of them decisions of the government . 
even the committee of them comptes publics of the another place has now souscrit at Act necessity of projections at more term term . 
gold , the government continues to say that fell we donnant of them information at term term , he minerait the importance and the emergency of apply attaquer at them problems immédiats . 
honourable senators , the Leader of the government could - he explain why the Auditor General has wrongly when he said that what not is that fell songeant at them consequences at more term term that we serons fully fell measure of évaluer the emergency of our situation budgétaire ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , health planning not has not that a odyssey objet , and différentes périodes of planning conviennent at différents objets . 
i puis say without crainte of me tromper that streets almost all levels departments , health planning at term term door Act to them périodes of five years , the ten years , voire davantage . 
bye them purposes of the process budgétaire , the minister of them Finance has déclaré that what guardian series démarche prudente , but appropriée , that the run restreindre at a cycle of two years yeas determine the foreign requirements budgétaires and the foreign projections of revenue particulières yeas series year donnée . 
confirms not wants not say that the government not apply intéresse not at Act planning at more term term and that he not Act practice not . 
the senator Bolduc : 
honourable senators , the attitude of the Auditor General me paraît reasonable . 
i am the agreement when the minister said that Act series basic of budgétisation of two years , confirms can perhaps reasonable . 
i dispel understand confirms . 
the Auditor General said that the government should allegiances at Act opposite of health population of them studies at more term term . 
til has connu confirms , by example , streets the field of them Pension , where til has rose to them Pension at them people everything of subsequently . 
til has rose to them Pension at them people pendant25 years puis , everything of a coup , til apply is awakened . 
Koppel . Paul Martin has examined Act question and has constaté that confirms not Partnerships more of bon sense , that he fallait augmenter them premiums of 73p. cent of here three years , sinon what serait Act bankruptcy of what plan . 
confirms not is not sage . 
the Auditor General ' said , and I am the agreement , that he particulars we introduce to them statisques at term term . 
the example of them Pension is the most bel example that til puisse find . 
til apply is aperçu that what guardian easy to give the foreign Pension at them people who never specialist not contributed . 
now , til request at Act generation suivante of payer yeas these Pension . 
and unabated generation recevra probably the foreign bénéfices who uncovered inférieurs at ceux of their parents . 
he not is not fair that condolences children me paient series pension Robbie that royal their arranged moindre when they auront mon age . 
even the increase the 73p. cent , the here four years , not suffira not yeas régler the problem . 
he tangibly regarder them implications at term term . 
the government should apply make a duty to appliquer series telle rule . 
what is series rule of wisdom yeas series saine management . 
no regardless damned company the fact . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , the Régime of Pension Plan the Canada done évidemment the objet of examinations . 
he is administré at Act once by the government federal and Oceans provinces . 
transport two ordres of government apply réunissent all levels three years richly yeas fixer them objectives at term term . 
i conviens that , fell fonctionnant without plan at term term , til risk of hypothéquer them generations futures , who uncovered appelées at payer yeas them services whose profite Act generation actuelle . 
the worst example that I dispel you give yeas illustrer confirms is gerrymandering of a government which enregistre of énormes deficits . 
the bilan of our government is excellent streets what field . 
voilà the worst example who illustre them propos of the Honourable Senator . 
fortunately , the Present Minister of them Finance and the Present government acclaimed corrigé Act situation . 
i know that the Honourable Senator apply réjouit of their success . 
answer différée at series question orale 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
i ai Act response différée at series question that the honorablesénateur Stratton has posée the 24 November 1999 at the topic of them Estimates for immobilisation streets the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) and the Day possibility of ouvrir of nouvelles ambassades . 
transport Affairs Foreign 
the increase the foreign Estimates for immobilisation streets the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) - Possibility possibility of ouvrir of nouvelles ambassades 
( response at Act question posée by the Honourable Terry Strattonle 24 November 1999 ) 
fell response at Act question who portait Act the ajout proposed the 43 875 400 Expenditures at the Authorized to appropriation actuelle of 87,870 690 40,000 Expenditures of the Ministère of them Foreign Foreign and the Government Commerce international ( MAECI ) by the biais of the Estimates Main of them Estimates for 1999 - 2000 , he tangibly consigned that the budget of them immobilisations of the MAECI couvre them Estimates non only yeas them biens immobiliers , but also yeas of other avoirs corporels and incorporels . 
based them 131 565 40,000 Expenditures proposés , approximately 68 million for $ are prévus yeas them Estimates yeas biens immobiliers . 
the rest arranged réparti between Act maintenance of the network Whalers of telecommunications and Oceans systems informatiques of management of the information , the achat of systems and the equipment of security , the achat of véhicules streets them missions at the abroad , business travaux of réparation and the maintenance of them propriétés and the achat of meubles and sections of ameublement . 
fell what who pertains them bills relatifs at the foreign propriétés , the bill réalisé at Berlin not represents that 26,2 million for what total fell 1999 - 2000 . 
the rest of the fund approved yeas the funding for them immobilisations of Berlin arranged dépensé during Senators exercises 2000 - 2001 at 2003 - 2004 . 
health list of them principales Estimates fell immobilisations who are allées at the foreign bills relatifs at the foreign propriétés fell 1999 - 2000 is présentée streets the tableau who suit . 
transport niveaux of spending diffèrent of ceux présentés the 2000 last streets them Rapports 1999 - 2000 Act them bills and Oceans priorities of the MAECI yeas various reasons : expectations yeas obtain them licences premises of construction , difficulties éprouvées by the entrepreneur at find the Day main - Request implementation and the foreign matériaux and more of time that prévu 3.26 at the phase of conception of some bills . 
summarizing bills of immobilisations 
Estimates planifiées yeas 1999 - 2000 ( million Expenditures ) 
Beijing China ( Achat of a complex diplomatique ) 
Berlin , Germany ( Construction of series chancellerie ) 
Berlin , Germany ( Construction of series residence official ) 
the Cairo , Egypt ( Construction of series chancellerie ) 
Caracas , Venezuela ( Achat of series chancellerie ) 
1211 , Switzerland ( Construction of series chancellerie ) 
Kingston , Jamaïque ( Construction of series chancellerie ) 
Nairobi , Kenya ( Construction of series chancellerie ) 
new Delhi , India ( Construction of housing yeas the staff ) 
Tokyo , Japan ( Construction of housing yeas the staff ) 
Varsovie , Poland ( Agrandissement / rénovation of health chancellerie ) 
Seoul , Korea ( Déménagement of health chancellerie ) 
orders OF THE 
the speech of the Trône 
motion of Adopted of the Adresse fell response - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Kroft , seconded by the Honourable Senator Furey , Refer at the adoption of series Adresse at His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale fell response at the speech that Elle has prononcé lors of the opening of health second session of health trente - sixth législature . - ( 
6e day to health resuming the Government debate ) 
the Honourable Norman K . Atkins : 
you fell arriverez can - perhaps at goûter tellement the functioning of bearer place that you voudrez reconsidérer vos premières observations regarding health durée of your séjour at the Senate . 
i ai aimé Act response that the Leader of the government has introductory at Act question that I him ai posée yesterday , at savoir that he essaierait of visiter Act Maison Vimy before Act resuming the foreign travaux of the Senate , after the congé of Christmas . 
i serais ravi of the cheering accompagner . 
senator Hays , you prostituted fact much of things streets your life Public and at the Senate . 
he guardian everything at fact naturel that you soyez guest at assumer them duties of Leader Deputy at bearer place . 
what is became series tradition . 
your prédécesseur has been chairman of the Party Liberal , him also . 
your apport positif at them travaux of them committees is also well connu . 
your experience you aidera can - perhaps at understand that he serait sage of envisager the study of a more grandfather number of bills of Bill fell committee Whole . 
personally , I hope that you pourrez continue to perhaps active at the Breast of the committee sénatorial of the Agriculture , notamment fell unabated period of Crisis who frappe them céréaliculteurs Airports . 
transport senators ' what side - ci considéraient the senator Graham commentator a leader effective of the government at the Senate . 
he savait that his role guardian of make fell sorte that foreign bills of Bill soient adoptés at bearer place . 
however , streets the fiscal of ses duties , he semblait apprécier the work of the Opposition and reconnaître his importance . 
our role BNA at débattre of them bills of Bill and at porter at the attention of the government and the foreign Canadians them flaws that they comportent . 
the senator Graham has also acknowledged that the role of the Senate not consistait not at approve automatically the work of health House of them Commons . 
he appartient at the Senate to réfléchir davantage at them repercussions of them measures legislatures and at Act way whose thin are formulées , and the écouter carefully them arguments of ceux who are fell favour of these measures and the ceux who faces there opposent . 
even apply he we is arrivé at the opportunity to diverger of opinion with him , the senator Graham has always treaty the Opposition with déférence and considéré the role of the Senate respectfully . 
what guardian series opportunity unique of make the Day projection and the say at them Canadians toward whereupon the government voit the Canada apply diriger at the surveillance of them years at venir . 
what speech aurait owed établir Act reason for perhaps the Government government , what that he wants make with the power that he détient . 
transport years Pearson acclaimed been caractérisées by the commitment at the hook of a regime of care of health universel , our centennial and a nouveau flag , what who has contributed at make connaître davantage the Canada at them other countries of the world . 
health " society fair " and the rapatriement of health Constitution acclaimed marqué them years Trudeau . 
what is durant the mandate of Joe Clark commentator Prime Minister that we ourselves impotent rapprochés them uns of them other fell activist that Canadians , that we awakened learned at better we understand thanks at dapper description of the Canada commentator a " together to communities " . 
what is also at the surveillance of these mandats that the Canada apply is doté of them fondements Act lesquels his economy richly today today : foreign agreements of free - Exchange and health reform fiscale , laquelle rend our exports concurrentielles opposite at our partners trading . 
he vaut Act peine of examiner them governments that we awakened eus at the Canada at the surveillance of them cinquante dernières years yeas see at breaching standpoint the government Chr not has aucune policy and aucune vision of future . 
transport Canadians deserve better than a speech of the Trône not offrant aucune vision . 
allons more loin . 
streets what speech , the government apply autocongratule without retenue yeas the role that he joue streets the economy . 
bye what topic , I veux me associer at them paroles of the Opposition of the Opposition referred the Senate , the senator Lynch - Staunton . 
streets his speech fell response at the speech of the Trône , he has rose at the government ' Affairs lessons of history and the economy Act them responsables of health crisis financière that traverse the Canada - Provincial Liberals of Trudeau - and based ceux who acclaimed jeté them bases Act lesquelles apply articulent them solutions - Provincial Conservatives of Mulroney . 
yeas ma share , I pourrais remonter at the speech that I ai prononcé lors of the debate budgétaire fell early of year . 
i ai félicité the government yeas wheel balanced the budget , but I ai also underlined that he négligeait of nombreux leviers Economic . 
the Canada not attire not suffisamment of investment étrangers , business taxes of all levels ordres of government are too élevés , our productivity is whether low that she threat our level of life and nil objective of reduction of health debt canadienne not has been fixé . 
a certain number of economists craignent that the dollar Heritage tombe also bas that 60 cents of here five years . 
health faiblesse of our devise has entraîné blunt series series of prises of control of companies Forces . 
confirms has conduit the former prime minister of the Alberta , Peter Lougheed , at déclarer : 
i me inquiète of health passivité of them governments , the foreign citizens and the foreign companies at the hook of the number of acquisitions of companies Forces importantes by the foreign compagnies américaines and ensuite , the Day loss of prise of decisions at the Canada at Act subsequently of the transfer of them seats Cultural of companies at them States - U.S. . 
nothing not is done , Robbie that the minister of them Finance continues to accumuler a surplus yeas the plaisir . 
the speech of the Trône announcement of them réductions of tax , the foreign réductions that person cannot has yet remarquées , who never correspondent same not at the surplus accumulé streets Act caisse of insurance - employment . 
the inertie of the government Act the Mifflin economic , business problems reliés at them taxes , at Act productivity and at them investment étrangers acclaimed conduit Tom De Aquino , the chairman of the Council Heritage of them chefs of companies , at déclarer : 
fell fact , we awakened at Ottawa a government which no comprend not Act gravité of health situation at laquelle our country fact opposite . 
yeas eux , the economy apply door well , a number croissant of people acclaimed a employment , business surplus apply accumulent and Oceans sondages are very favorables at the government . 
transport people commentator you and moi and well - other who osent ask a change radical and the nouvelles ideas are often considérés commentator of them alarmistes who never recherchent that their interest staff . 
the inertie of the government streets these domaines apply manifeste the most streets the framework of the debate Act the exodus of them cerveaux at the Canada . 
the Prime Minister believes that what is simply a mythe and I guess that he think that if til not done nothing , commentator streets the case of course of other matters , the problem disparaîtra of him ? same or til not him demandera not to comptes . 
honourable senators , what not is not the standpoint of standpoint of them expert who acclaimed attended at our caucus of the summer at Calgary , fell September . 
transport representatives of the industry , the Government sector private , the groups of reflection and the Government world universitaire we acclaimed fact share of health gravité of health issue and the foreign repercussions négatives of what phenomenon , Robbie that foreign Canadians essaient of Welfare compétitifs Act the market Whalers . 
well course , a example concret of what that the Prime Minister estimated perhaps a mythe we is rose by John Roth , President - steering General of Nortel Networks . 
bye the number of them principales reasons yeas lesquelles our meilleurs professionals quittent the Canada , he quote Act faiblesse of the dollar Heritage , the rate of Tolls marginal the most élevé at the Canada and the level exaltant of activité commerciale at the outside of the Canada . 
what is by the biais of political Projections , monétaires and Economic that a government crée a climate economic encourageant them people at demeurer at the Canada or at venir apply there installer . 
commentant them statements deM. Roth , the nationaliste Heritage Peter C . Newman has said : 
i cannot believe not that he veuille say : " Je veux foutre mon camp of the Canada . " 
Koppel . Newman think rather queM. Roth wants say : 
" I cannot ai not the choice . " 
the lack of vision of the government , his lack of dynamisme streets them sphères Projections and Economic , exception introductory of them measures visant at équilibrer the budget Act the dos of them provinces and the foreign citizens them more poor of the Canada , are at the origin of what problem . 
the inaction of the government appeared series reality écrasante not done that exacerber the problem . 
breaching is the interest of these benefits yeas them persons who passent regularly of series situation of work at series situation of course - perhaps Housing ? 
commentator Marjorie Doyle , deSt. John' Maclean , Newfoundland - Newfoundland , the has written fell October : 
the speech of the Trône of health week dernière not apply adressait not at moi . 
dapper letter décrit concrètement the inadaptation of health promise of the speech of the Trône regarding the future of the Internet at Act reality of health life streets a Port of fishery of Newfoundland - Newfoundland or streets the Canada rural . 
she said : 
health vision of a Canada who fact of health upper technology his Railway of lance seems éloignée , voire same exclusive , when she is exposée at the moment where you voyez a man débarquer Act the wharfinger ses prises of hareng or the calmar at the assistance to a tool simple . 
bye measure that the speech of the Trône avance , ajoutant at Act glorification of toutes them things cybernétiques , confirms me remind that the gap between the Canada ' health class dirigeante and gerrymandering where the nombreux Canadians vivent is fell fact very grandfather ... 
... and apply creuse still ... 
he not is not possible that royal petite province isolée of Newfoundland - Newfoundland authorized the odyssey place where them people and Oceans modes of life are marginalized , sinon stares ignorés , by the concept of a Canada who serait the roi Cyber . 
he doit well there wheel not evil of Canadians streets them regions rural where the space cybernétique seems périphérique . 
the day where the speech of the Trône has been prononcé Act week dernière , health road Act more fréquentée of health petite province isolée of Newfoundland - Newfoundland guardian the chemin of earth battue menant at them jardins situés at the footnotes of health community , the foreign jardins where them men and Oceans women cultive of them plantes racines , a little commentator the teamwork their ancêtres at the beginning duXIXe century , travaillant often Act the same petit carré of earth . 
transport men étaient at Act fishing streets their bateau , a piège of allure primitive Partnerships been placé streets the étang originators , and the husband and health wife who exploitent Act forêt travaillaient durum . 
we cannot pouvons not forget them racines of what country streets Act ruée actuelle toward Act technology . 
health promise of augmenter still Act Prestation national yeas children fell the 2000 2002 not wants not say grandfather - something yeas them poor or telecommunications assistés Cultural , who verront them provinces augmenter their taxes of autant . 
bye the least , streets what party , we awakened constitué a group of work Act Act poverty , coprésidé of way very compétente by the senator Cohen and health députée conservatrice of health House of them Commons representative Act riding of Shefford , Diane St - Jacques , fell company of the senator Lavoie - Roux . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
hon. Senator Atkins , I regret to duty you interrupt , but them 15 minutes who you étaient allouées acclaimed expiré . 
voulez - you ask the Government time Supplementary yeas continue ? 
the senator Atkins : 
yes . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Atkins : 
i you thank , honourable senators . 
their recommendations acclaimed jeté them premières bases of the établissement of a system of protection of the Income familial and the one rate of Tolls reasonable of the Income of them particuliers yeas them Canadians at incomes low and moyen . 
i brevity the Leader Deputy of the government at the Senate to no not apply perhaps opposé at Act request for the senator Gustafson who visait Act tenue of a debate Special Act Act question the 3 November last . 
what debate has underlined them souffrances reliées at Act crisis of the Agriculture analyzed that the absence of series strategy national cohérente fell standpoint of protect and the improve Act situation of them fermes familiales . 
he not should not perhaps necessary to wait that series crisis apply produise , commentator the government ' has if often fact , yeas we tribute account that foreign policies are déficientes or even inexistantes . 
commentator the senator Andreychuk : has underlined of way if concise at the surveillance of the debate : 
the problem , what is that the government federal not comprend not that he doit make Evidence of creativity and tenter of find the nouvelles solutions at Act crisis of the Agriculture streets the West . 
[ ... ] we analyzed fell pleine crisis . 
yet series once , the government lack of imagination and apply shows incapable of understanding them nouveaux problems . 
the debate that we awakened tenu at the Senate has been very useful , but he not aurait not owed perhaps necessary . 
the government Partnerships series chance fell gold of traiter of health crisis streets the Agriculture streets the speech of the Trône , and the établir of nouvelles orientations and the foreign paramètres yeas the établissement of political yeas Act protection of them fermes familiales . 
everyone confirms aurait avoided perhaps suivi very quickly by the tabling at Act House of them Commons to measures legislatures visant at adopt these nouvelles initiatives . 
however , the speech of the Trône not contenait nothing , nothing to the everything yeas them regions agricultural . 
that say to them sectors whose the government has spoke streets the speech of the Trône ? 
fell what who has trait at Act question military , the speech gave began Act a ton very prometteur , décrivant our troops commentator of them soldiers of health peace at the surveillance of them guerres mondiales and fell Korea . 
til retrouve , streets the corps of the text and below the subheading " Position place to the Canada streets the world " , health phrase suivante , who is probably Act more fallacieuse never inscrite streets a speech of the Trône : 
the government continuera also the veiller at what that foreign Forces Forces soient fell measure of appuyer the role of the Canada yeas contributing at Act security streets the world and he remembered efforcera of accroître Act ability to them Canadians and the foreign Canadiennes of help at ensure Act peace and health safety streets of them country étrangers . 
confirms complements of a government which has rendu our frégates of class World quasiment inutiles fell annulant the achat of helicopters prévu by the government precedent and who met Act life of our soldiers still more fell danger fell retardant the achat of nouveau helicopters . 
according him , he particulars immediately injecter at the least 500 million for $ of more . 
he not is more acceptable that the minister of health Défense déclare that foreign forces Armed submariners continue at fell make more with fewer . 
contrairement at what that he said , he not can not réorganiser the budget , car he is too maigre yeas perhaps réorganisé . 
streets a section entitled : " Reforming Canada' Maclean Military " , the Colonel at Act retirement Michel Drapeau invite the government at revitaliser Act milice and health contingency , at reduce the number of généraux of half , at séparer them duties of health bureaucratie civile of the Department of health Défense of celles of the command military , at éliminer the département of them Affairs translated of health Défense , and at équiper correctement our soldiers . 
yeas ma share , I conseillerais at the government Liberal of allegiances fell implementation them findings of the book white of 1994 Act Act defence , that he has him ? same released . 
bye everything the least , the government should avoid the parler of continue at équiper them forces Armed , Robbie that he not has same not began . 
certes , the speech of the Trône parle of health necessity of accroître the funding for health research and the Government development at the Canada . 
i hope only that what funding ira at Act research fondamentale streets them universities , streets of them domaines that foreign universities thin - mêmes estiment importants . 
i estimated that the government doit aller au - delà of the Fund - Provincial scholarships to the millennium announced by the minister of them Finance streets his budget he rereads has two years . 
i believe that the problem of the indebtedness grandissant , who touche of them thousands of students at them four coins of the country , perhaps perhaps résolu with success . 
however , he tangibly yeas confirms non only engager them resources nécessaires , but also make Evidence of imagination streets the élaboration of a program which non only assistance all levels students postsecondaires , but also them encourage at exceller streets them studies and encourage ceux who acclaimed quitté prématurément the école at there retourner yeas there parfaire their studies . 
i there reiterate at the opportunity to mon inquiry at the surveillance of them prochaines weeks . 
yeas paraphraser Rachna Gilmore , who has received dernièrement the price littéraire of the Governor General , he is important to apply preoccupation non only to ceux who marchent them yeux baissés , but also the ceux who regardent them stars and apply permettent of rêver . 
what country deserves a government which has series vision of the future which amended source of inspiration yeas them Canadians at the aube of a nouveau century . 
we méritons a government which ose rêver . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the Honourable Rose - Marie Losier - Cool : 
honourable senators , I me adresse at you today today afin of you make share of condolences reactions at the speech of the Trône prononcé lors of the opening of health second session of health trente - sixth législature of the Canada . 
condolences réflexions porteront primarily Act three themes : Act petite boyhood of the Canada , business congés parentaux and health safety humaine , and mostly Act security of them children streets them country fell voie of developing . 
[ 1520 ] 
everyone of thanking , I me réjouis that royal priority principale of the government apply tourne toward Act petite boyhood . 
i quote : speech of the Trône : 
nil commitment that we prenons today today not arranged more important yeas Act prosperity and the course - perhaps at term term of health society canadienne that gerrymandering of invest our efforts fell favour of them very young children . 
he incombe at the government ' offer at them parents and at them families who prennent soin of their children series gamme of measures and the methods who appuient their efforts . 
transport parents acclaimed grandement need to soutien and the encadrement yeas make opposite at their responsibility first , who is celle of prendre soin of their children . 
the course - perhaps intégral of them children comporte several composantes . 
fell Prime instead , a congé parental of 52 weeks permettra finalement at them parents of apply preoccupation davantage of their everything - grandchildren without duty them confier at Act Custody of series tierce human . 
you conviendrez , honourable senators , that confier Act Custody of a very jeune child at series tierce human requiert much of préparations and the démarches yeas Act grande majority of them parents . 
i dispel you say , commentator experience personnelle , that when mon adjointe spéciale at Act research is revenue after a congé of maternité of six months , confirms has been very difficult because that the congé of maternité is the six months and that royal plupart of them garderies acceptent them children at a 2000 . 
he is very difficult to find the foreign places fell garderie yeas series period of six months . 
the elsewhere , health grande majority of them parents souhaitent accéder at davantage of soutien who their permettrait of achieve a meilleur balance opposite at them demandes exigeantes of the world of the work Present . 
transport premières years of life of a child are déterminantes yeas dapper health and his well - perhaps at term term . 
honourable senators , business children vivant fell situation minoritaire at travers the Canada deserve series attention particulière if we voulons ensure a developing sain yeas all our children and yeas their families . 
what is why he is very important to mesurer and the connaître more spécifiquement them needs of them children and the foreign families of them communaut francophones and acadienne of the Canada . 
health recognition of the identity and the foreign réalités of them francophones represents therefore a enjeu majeur yeas the future of them children and the foreign young of them communaut francophones and acadienne of the Canada . 
all levels children Airports acclaimed right at them mêmes services and at them mêmes facilités of developing . 
bref , the importance that we accordons at Act petite boyhood today today permettra at the foreign thousands of children of entamer their lives of adulte fell faisant Evidence of trust , the creativity and the determination . 
outre them benefits Cultural évidents liés at the soutien of the development of them young children , health House of Commerce of Vancouver there voit of them benefits Economic well clairs . 
i quote : 
our constatations révèlent that invest streets the development of them young children can reduce them problems Cultural , accroître them capacités and produire a bon performance economic . 
and she fell arrive at Act conclusion suivante : 
bref , invest streets our children constitue series good politics of interest public . 
i brevity Act House of Commerce of Vancouver of wheel adopted unabated Position fell prenant party yeas them children of the Canada and fell défendant their interests . 
honourable senators , you serez surely all of agreement yeas say , commentator parents , and commentator grands - parents streets the case of some , that royal family who éduque ses children and subvient at their needs is the meilleur touchstone of the bon development of them children . 
the education parentale , the acquisition of them habiletés and the soutien at them parents and at them families are essentiels yeas improve them conditions of life of them children . 
voilà why the foreign programs of developing of them young children repositories perhaps a élément fondamental of health vision of future of the government . 
the third and last standpoint of mon exposé pertains Act population and the development . 
transport concepts of developing and the safety of the child at the Canada diffèrent considérablement of what that they représentent streets them country fell development . 
a environment favorable at the development timeless , and more spécialement of the child , done intervene two concepts fondamentaux : the development timeless and health safety humaine . 
well that distincts , business two concepts apply renforcent mutuellement . 
even apply they not are not synonymes , together , health safety humaine and the development timeless répondent at the double objective of libérer of health afraid and the libérer of the need . 
health freedom of agir of them people can perhaps limitée by these two fears , and yeas them members them more poor and Oceans more vulnerable of health society , health poverty and the insécurité are liées fell a cercle vicieux . 
yeas briser what cercle , he tangibly of them measures yeas stimulate the development timeless thanks at the access at a employment stable , at the education and at them services Cultural . 
the absence of these guarantees of security humaine represents a barrier redoutable at the development timeless without regard at them niveaux of income . 
if them people cannot acclaimed not confidence streets the power to health society of them protect , they are roughly enclins at invest streets the future . 
yeas bâtir a world who attache much of price at Act security humaine , he tangibly commencer by apply préoccuper of ceux who fell hériteront and agir yeas them protect . 
health Convention relative at them rights of the child has marqué a early , series way whose health community international pouvait apply acquitter of health responsibility which we incombe all opposite at our children . 
he rereads has few years , series song popular Tisserant : 
a child , ça you décroche a rêve 
Robbie , honourable senators , permettons - we to rêver . 
partagez with moi the rêve that I ai yeas that a day , til puisse offer at all levels children of health planet what that the snakes offers at our propres children and at our grandchildren - child . 
( Act Act motion of the senator DeWare , at the name of the senator LeBreton , the debate is adjourned . ) 
bill to Bill facilitant Act prise of certaines decisions médicales 
second reading - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Carstairs , seconded by the Honourable Senator pin , Refer at Act second reading of the bill to Bill S - 2 , Act facilitant Act prise of decisions médicales legitimate relatively at them traitements of survival and at the treatment of health douleur . - ( 
the Honourable Senator Lavoie - Roux ) 
the Honourable Lucie pin : 
honourable senators , I prends Act parole today today yeas defend the bill to Bill S - 2 who faciliterait Act prise of decisions médicales regarding Casual traitements of survival and the soulagement of health douleur . 
i brevity condolences colleagues who acclaimed fact part , he rereads has already five years , the Government committee sénatorial Special Act the euthanasia and the assistance at the suicide . 
blunt their reflection and foremost their work acclaimed been very productifs . 
he tangibly now make the necessary afin that the bill deloi S - 2 authorized effective and that he authorized adopted without tarder . 
honourable senators , at a moment or the another of our lives , he is arrivé at Act plupart of between us to us find at the chevet of a parent or the one ami very patient , fell proie at the terribles souffrances , often at few days or few hours of their death . 
we cannot souhaitons that series something , and what is that unabated human vive what that he wouldn rest at vivre streets a confort Covenant , streets Act peace and health dignity . 
unfortunately , he arrive too often that the confort and health dignity not soient not at the rendez - you . 
rose been infirmière , I organize them challenges auxquels are confrontés them professionals of health health fell matière of care palliative . 
we awakened all been formés yeas guérir . 
fell fact , everything the system médical is bâti autour of health teachings of care curatifs . 
we cannot awakened not learned at help them mourants and , yeas much of between us , health death is synonyme of failure . 
transport professionals that we analyzed are very conscients of their responsibility appeared Act bill , the sorte that royal prudence we dicte of heed Act death at bout of bras . 
based on plan staff , perhaps - perhaps that royal death we terrifie and that we awakened of health difficulty at make opposite at them émotions of them malades and the their proches and at accept the sentiment of vacuum that royal death évoque . 
bref , he existe activist and more of motifs complex who we poussent at maintain Act life at everything price , even when confirms apply fact against Act volonté of the patient and at the détriment of dapper dignity and the dapper peace . 
i me réjouis of the bill to Bill S - 2 that I supports with enthusiasm , specifically yeas Act reason that he VI at find the foreign solutions at them nombreuses reasons complex évoquées by foreign prestataires of care of health yeas apply acharner at sauver of them vies at everything price . 
transport things not are not claires fell matière of responsibility pénale . 
the bill to Bill S - 2 has yeas objet of clarify them textes of Bill existants and the us ensure that foreign vows of them patients uncovered respectés by the system of care of health and that foreign soignants uncovered protected by Act bill and Oceans standards médicales nécessaires yeas better heed account the foreign souhaits of them malades . 
more specifically , the bill to Bill S - 2 énonce them conditions justifiant Act the Mifflin legal the discontinuance of them traitements of survival and the Government treatment of health douleur susceptible of abréger Act life . 
streets a prime time , the bill to Bill S - 2 indique streets a wording clear and easy at understand that he is juridiquement acceptable that the soignant administre at the patient of them médicaments fell doses susceptibles of soulager ses souffrances physiques , even if these doses risquent of fell abréger Act life . 
the bill to Bill dispose that royal decision to administrer these médicaments is acceptable at them yeux of health law sideshow streets them case where the intent is the soulager them souffrances physiques , but non not streets them case where the intent is the give Act death . 
the bill to Bill S - 2 établit series distinction claire fell function of the intent : there apply notional of atténuer them souffrances physiques and non - causer Act death . 
what type of distinction of after the intent is at Act basic same of our right pénal . 
streets our right , he rereads has without cesse of them distinctions at make . 
i cannot think not that the bill to Bill S - 2 ouvre Act door at the suicide attended . 
i believe by against that he clarifie them things and protège them professionals of health health , their permettant of veiller at the confort and at Act dignity of their patients . 
deuxièmement , the bill to Bill S - 2 précise that he not there has not to responsibility pénale when a soignant practice the abstention or the discontinuance of a treatment of survival pourvu that the patient , Robbie that he guardian fell possession of ses afford , ait presented series request valide fell what sense . 
honourable senators , everything adulte sain of mind at the Canada has the right to prendre of them decisions regarding dapper life , somewhat regardless if at them yeux of them other , thin seem bonnes or mauvaises . 
composite of between us has Act freedom of decide to them traitements médicaux that he or she wants or not wants not , analyzed that the Government moment and the Day way of them interrupt . 
Koppel . the judge John Sopinka of health Court Supreme has exprimé very succinctement what right streets the judgment that he has rendu streets the affair Rodriguez . 
impose a treatment médical at series human who the refuses is a acte of violence and health common law has recognized the right to exiger the discontinuance or health non - administration of a treatment médical who prolongerait Act life . 
là still , the bill to Bill S - 2 not done that clarify them circumstances streets lesquelles them decisions médicales are légales . 
transport rights and Oceans principles fell cause are currently entérinés by our system judicial . 
the bill deloi S - 2 précise ensuite who may introduce series request for abstention or the discontinuance of a treatment médical , at the name of a patient who never is not fell measure of prendre unabated decision . 
honourable senators , he not suffit not to clarify the context legal of them decisions médicales , loin of là . 
fell third instead , the bill to Bill S - 2 appelle the minister of health Health and ses counterparts provinciaux at établir of them lines directrices nationales fell matière of care palliative , the abstention and the discontinuance of treatment of survival . 
these lines directrices are essentielles at the établissement of series practice medical acceptable streets what field . 
our society is evil at the aise appeared Act death . 
we fell awakened afraid . 
we cannot aimons not fell parler openly and prendre conscience of dapper signification , the Hon. sense . 
why fell serait - he otherwise yeas them persons who soignent ? 
why apply wait at what that these individuals possèdent of them skills innées appeared Act death , simply the Government fact of their profession ? 
the bill to Bill S - 2 exige also that foreign professionals of health health reçoivent series meilleure training fell care palliative , apprennent how and when soulager Act douleur and interrupt a treatment of survival . 
they repositories learn at apprivoiser them difficulties and Oceans émotions that series illness terminale suscite . 
the bill to Bill S - 2 renforce them contextes legal and Housing of these decisions médicales . 
i think that the bill to Bill S - 2 can make much yeas that foreign souhaits and Oceans needs of them malades soient respectés streets the system of health afin that their confort and their dignity soient protected , yeas that royal préservation of health life rest the objective of them professionals of health health but that til accorde also at them malades and at their proches the right to decide what who their convient the better when Act death veille . 
honourable senators , each family at the Canada is touchée by unabated question . 
we connaissons all and blunt something a who has seen a proche souffrir inutilement and whose the desire not has not been respecté because that the soignant connaissait evil them care palliative or craignait of Welfare poursuivi fell justice . 
the bill to Bill S - 2 arranged accueilli favorablement activist by foreign professionals of health health that by foreign families Forces . 
i brevity the senator Carstairs and I souhaite of bonnes deliberations at the committee which discutera of unabated question . 
the Honourable MabelM. DeWare : 
honourable senators , we cannot awakened not the intent of retarder the study of the bill to Bill , but I believe savoir that the senator Lavoie - Roux arranged Incidence we Act week next . 
i believe that we devons him laisser the opportunity to parler of unabated question . 
i vais therefore ajourner the debate fell his name . 
( Act Act motion of the senator DeWare , at the name of the senator Lavoie - Roux , the debate is adjourned . ) 
bill to Bill Act them perquisitions and Oceans saisies internationales 
second reading - Adjourned of the debate 
[ 1540 ] 
what Bill of Bill Partnerships already been introduit by mon hon. colleague , the senator Beaudoin , the 3 March last , lors of health first session of health trente - sixth législature . 
he is nary sciences at the Paper fell September last before the wheel franchi the phase of health second reading . 
honourable senators , fell 1982 , our country apply is doté of a tool catalyst yeas protect them Canadians to them interventions abusives of the state streets their lives privacy . 
he remembered notional of health Charter canadienne of them rights and freedoms . 
the article 32 of unabated dernière introduces that : 
1 ) Position présente charte apply applies : 
has ) at the Parliament and at the government ' s Canada yeas all levels domaines relevant to the Parliament there including ceux who concernent the territory of the Yukon and Oceans Territories of the North - western ; 
b ) at Act législature and at the government ' each province , yeas all levels domaines relevant to unabated législature . 
the article 8 to unabated Charter introduces that each Quebecer has right at Act protection against foreign fouilles , business perquisitions or telecommunications saisies abusives . 
the bill to Bill S - 4 VI primarily at specifying series question importante of right fell what who has trait at the application of the article 8 . Ainsi , the article 3 to the bill to Bill S - 4 précise , and I quote , that : 
before the introduce series request for perquisition or the saisie at the outside of the Canada at series organization or autorité étrangère or international at them purposes of series inquiry relative at series offence , the autorité compétente présente series requête at a judge or a judge of peace yeas that authorized rendue series ordonnance autorisant Act request . 
unabated provision has yeas but the protect them individus , at the Canada , against series perquisition or series saisie abusive who aurait instead at the outside of the Canada . 
when a citizen arranged the objet of series inquiry reliée at series présumée offence at series bill fédérale , the prosecutor General concerné devra obtain the Authorized préalable of a judge , commentator what is the case lors of series inquiry at the Canada . 
confirms apply produira before the envoi of series letter of asking for assistance at them authorities of a another country yeas ask Act saisie of documents which apply trouvent streets what country . 
honourable senators , what Bill of Bill apply inspire the foreign findings of health Court Supreme of the Canada streets the v. Schreiber . 
rappelons them facts . 
the intimé , who is citizen Heritage , résidait at the Canada analyzed that fell Europe , and he possédait of them comptes at Act Swiss Banking Corporation at Zurich . 
the government suisse has accepted Act letter of asking and series ordonnance has been rendue autorisant Act saisie of documents and dossiers regarding Casual comptes of the intimé . 
nil mandate of perquisition anguishes aucune another Authorized judicial not specialist préalablement been obtenus at the Canada before Act Presented of health letter of asking . 
health Court fédérale and health Court of Appeal fédérale specialist responded by the affirmative at unabated question . 
health cause fut scope fell Appeal appeared Act Court Supreme of the Canada . 
the 28 May 1998 , the judge fell Opposition of the most haut court of the country , Antonio Lamer , analyzed that royal Justice Claire Le happy - Dubé acclaimed responded by Act négative at Act question of right posée by Karl H . Schreiber . 
according the judge fell Opposition , series ordonnance demandant Act saisie of documents bancaires , introductory by the Department of health Howe of the Canada and envoyée at them authorities Swiss , not faisait not entrer fell stake the application of them provision of health Charter . 
health letter of asking for assistance not portait therefore not atteinte at the article 8 to health Charter and at them rights of Schreiber . 
the judge Lamer wrote at the paragraph 24 - dapper decision , and I quote : 
health human who possède of them biens or the foreign documents streets a Crown abroad court the risk that series fouille or perquisition authorized effectuée pursuant at them laws of bearer state . 
she never can not " raisonnablement apply wait " at what that confirms not apply produise not , if them laws of the state fell question autorisent clearly the telles measures . 
health Justice Le Heureux - Dubé , parlant at the name of health majority of health cour , guardian also the notice that royal Charter not apply appliquait not at a government abroad . 
streets the espèce , business gestes of them authorities Swiss not étaient therefore not assujettis at them provisions del' section 8 . De more , she never apply appliquait not at Act letter of asking for assistance , car the Canada not has not procédé at Act saisie anguishes at Act perquisition . 
streets series opinion dissidente , business judges Frank Iacobucci and Charles D . Gonthier acclaimed convenu that the government suisse not guardian not to the everything assujetti at the respect to them provisions of health Charter . 
by against , they acclaimed néanmoins estimé queM. Schreiber possédait of them expectations raisonnables fell matière of life privacy . 
analyzed , business authorities Forces auraient owed obtain a mandate before the envoyer Act letter of asking at them authorities Swiss . 
health minorité has therefore conclu that the article 8 to health Charter apply appliquait streets the case of Schreiber . 
fell consequential , health saisie of them documents bancaires demandée by the Department of health Howe without Authorized préalable has porté atteinte at the right deM. Schreiber at the respect to dapper life privacy . 
honourable senators , several of between you acclaimed émis of them reserves understandings at Act scope of them provisions of the former Bill of Bill S - 24 . 
some croient that he imposera them provisions of health Charter canadienne of them rights and freedoms fell matière of respect to the right at Act life privacy at the other countries lors of asking for assistance at the surveillance of investigations criminelles . 
i tiens at you rassurer immediately . 
what Bill of Bill not has aucune scope extraterritoriale . 
yeas tenter of you convince the bearer état of fact , we devons of thanking retourner at them principles which guident the application of the article 8 to health Charter lors of investigations criminelles . 
since 1982 , health Court Supreme of the Canada has spécifié streets several arrêts them principles which repositories define Act scope of the article 8 and health way of the appliquer concrètement . 
Dansl' v. R . Q Schreiber , the judge Frank Iacobucci affirmait that the text of the article 8 donnait very little of indications Act Act scope and the objet of them interests that he VI at protect . 
fell 1984 , streets the v. Hunterc. SouthamInc. , the judge Brian Dickson Partnerships défini yeas the first once the objet of the article 8 . Il apply agissait of health protection granted at them persons against foreign intrusions injustifiées of the state streets their lives privacy . 
by against , health scope of what right guardian limitée by the character reasonable of the attente that has series human fell matière of respect to dapper life privacy streets them circumstances of series affair donnée . 
the judge Dickson has explained analyzed unabated approach streets Hunter at them pages 159 and 160 , and I quote : 
health garantie of protection against foreign fouilles , business perquisitions and Oceans saisies abusives not VI that series attente reasonable . 
unabated limitation of the right garanti by the article 8 , that she authorized exprimée Subcommittee Act form négative , what is - at - say commentator series protection against foreign fouilles , business perquisitions and Oceans saisies " abusives " , or Subcommittee Act form positive commentator the right to apply wait " raisonnablement " at Act protection of health life privacy , indique that he tangibly apprécier if , streets series situation donnée , the right to the public of not not perhaps importuné by the government doit céder the not at the right to the government ' apply immiscer streets Act life privacy of them particuliers afin of réaliser ses purposes and , notamment , the ensure the application of health law . 
fell consequential , since the v. Hunter the concept of " attente reasonable fell matière of life privacy " is the principle structurel permettant of determine whether the article 8 apply applies and protège them rights of series human streets series situation donnée . 
streets a second time , health Court Supreme has interprété streets several decisions the article 8 commentator rose yeas effect of protect them persons , and non - Provincial lieux or the foreign things . 
what principle marquait a change important streets the objet of the right at Act life privacy . 
unabated interpretation of the article 8 not guardian limitée anguishes by Act teachings of ownership anguishes by the right applicable fell matière of intrusion . 
fell 1993 , confirms has amené Act Court Supreme at conclude , streets the v. R . Q Plant , that series human has series attente reasonable fell matière of life privacy relatively at a whole of information biographiques of Order staff whose disposent of other persons at his topic . 
the judge John Sopinka , run exprimant yeas Act majority , has said rejecting at Act page 293 of the v. , and I quote : 
[ ... ] yeas that royal protection BNA apply applies , business information saisis repositories perhaps the nature personnelle and confidentielle . 
Étant rose them values Subcommittee - jacentes of dignity , the integrity and the self that he consacre , he is normal that the article 8 to health Charter protège a whole of information biographiques of Order staff that foreign particuliers palatable , streets series society free and democratic , vouloir constituer and soustraire at Act knowledge of the state . 
he could notamment apply agir of information Refer at révéler of them details intimes Act the mode of life and Oceans choice personnels of the individu . 
he seems therefore clear , according Act cour , that the objet Main of the right at Act life privacy is by conséquent the effect of series fouille , the genus perquisition or the genus saisie abusive Act the individu . 
the instead where unabated measure is exécutée is without importance . 
since the v. Hunter , health Court Supreme has considéré that the article 8 Partnerships yeas effect of protect , before the fact , business rights relatifs at Act life privacy . 
he not doit not perhaps utilisé yeas valider or condemn , after the fact , business intrusions of the state streets Act life privacy of series human . 
fell what sense , health cour has rose at the article 8 series interpretation fondée Act his principle , the manner at what that he constitue davantage that series simple ban against foreign fouilles , business perquisitions or telecommunications saisies abusives . 
commentator the has explained the judge Gerard Position Forest fell 1998 streets the v. R . Q Dyment , if the right at Act life privacy of the individu doit perhaps protégé , we cannot pouvons we permettre of not make valoir what right that after that he ait been violé . 
confirms is inherent at Act teachings of protection against foreign fouilles , business perquisitions and Oceans saisies abusives . 
honourable senators , commentator you the savez , each individu attache series grande importance at dapper life privacy and at them afford to health protect . 
the character of health teachings of life privacy is tel that , blocks that til there has porté atteinte , til can rarely Act regagner streets his entirety . 
by conséquent , yeas that the article 8 protège efficacement the attente reasonable of series human fell matière of respect to dapper life privacy , he doit produire ses effects before the exécution of health fouille , the Day perquisition or the Day saisie , and before Act divulgation of the information . 
without unabated protection , he not aurait that very little of value fell activist that garantie of the right at Act life privacy apply he not apply appliquait that yeas écarter , after the fact , the foreign information obtenus of series manner abusive . 
unabated interpretation of the article 8 has commitments series form concrète streets the exigence relative at the Authorized judicial préalable that has énoncée the judge Dickson streets the v. Hunter . 
streets bearer v. , he affirmait that the court capitalists , streets a prime time , soupeser dapper decision between the right to health human visée at the respect to dapper life privacy and gerrymandering of the interest of the state at the hook of the application of health law . 
by Act subsequently , he guardian necessary to determine the moment where unabated Authorized should perhaps granted by a court . 
rejecting Partnerships yeas but the prévenir them fouilles and Oceans perquisitions injustifiées before that thin not apply produisent . 
confirms not pouvait perhaps accompli that by a system of Authorized préalable before Act saisie and non by the biais of series validation subséquente . 
fell consequential , according the most haut court of the country , the article 8 between Robbie fell stake . 
analyzed , the right to the individu at the respect to dapper life privacy and the interest of the state fell matière of application of health law are soupesés by the application of the process of Authorized judicial préalable , before the exécution of health fouille , the Day perquisition or the Day saisie envisagée . 
honourable senators , business courts acclaimed also cerné Act teachings of character abusif at the meaning of the article 8 . En effect , yeas that series fouille , series perquisition or series saisie authorized qualifiée of " reasonable " and non not " the abusive " , she doit , according Act Court Supreme of the Canada streets the v. Hunter of 1984 : 
[ ... ] wheel been préalablement autorisée by series human neutre and impartiale who doit agir of way judicial , according to them motifs raisonnables and probables , the simples soupçons not étant not suffisants , and perhaps effectuée of manner reasonable and non abusive . 
the judge Antonio Lamer has énuméré , fell 1987 , streets the v. R . Q Collins , three other conditions who repositories perhaps respectées at the meaning of health law yeas that series fouille or perquisition effectuée without mandate not authorized not considérée " abusive " at the meaning of the article 8 : 
[ ... ] she doit perhaps autorisée by Act bill ; Act bill habilitante not doit not she - even perhaps abusive ; and health fouille not doit not wheel been effectuée of series manner abusive . 
analyzed , series fouille , perquisition or saisie déclarée abusive rereads very difficilement perhaps justifiée commentator " reasonable " at the meaning of the article 1 to health Charter . 
until at now , business courts acclaimed fact series distinction between them saisies streets the framework of affairs criminelles and Oceans saisies streets the context of affairs administratives . 
the criterion of the affair Hunter énoncé auparavant apply applies rigoureusement at them saisies streets the framework of affairs criminelles . 
health Court Supreme has also précisé , streets the v. McKinlay Transport of 1990 , that most the atteinte of the right at Act life privacy is grande , more them guarantees of the v. Hunter repositories perhaps respectées . 
streets the case Schreiber , business judges Gonthier and Iacobucci acclaimed exprimé series opinion dissidente , commentator I the ai mentioned earlier earlier , ceux - ci étant of opinion that royal saisie of comptes bancaires at the outside of the Canada , without Authorized judicial préalable , violait the right at Act protection of health life privacy . 
fell arrivant at unabated conclusion , the judge Iacobucci apply is supported Act the interpretation large and libérale of the article 8 to health Charter that I ai explained more earlier . 
yeas determine whether justice letter of asking for assistance guardian contrary at them provisions of the article 8 , the judge has utilisé them directives énoncées streets the v. Plant by the judge Sopinka . 
thin specialist yeas but the determine whether series human fell cause Partnerships , relatively at some information , series attente reasonable fell matière of life privacy him donnant right at Act protection of the article 8 . bye Act page 293 of bearer v. , he has written , and I quote : 
the examination of factors reassess Act nature of them information , celle of them relations between Act part divulguant them information and health part fell réclamant Act confidentialité , the place where they acclaimed been recueillis , business conditions streets lesquelles they acclaimed been obtenus and health gravité of the crime faisant the objet of the inquiry , allows the pondérer them rights Cultural at Act protection of health dignity , the Government integrity and the Government self - Status human and the application effective of health law . 
several principles arresting perhaps dégagés of unabated interpretation of the application of the article 8 . De thanking , business authorities chargées of the application of health law repositories perhaps sensibles at the right to series human at the respect to dapper life privacy , relatively at a whole of information biographiques of Order staff Act regarding . 
the existence of series attente reasonable fell matière of life privacy déclenche the application of them guarantees prescribed by the article 8 . Lorsque unabated attente existe and that celle - ci is menacée by series intrusion projetée by the government , business authorities chargées of the application of health law are tenues of obtaining series Authorized judicial before the agir . 
appliquant the framework contextuel élaboré by the judge Sopinka streets the v. Plant , the judge Iacobucci has conclu that the intimé Partnerships solemn series telle attente at the hook of ses documents bancaires Swiss . 
these derniers révélaient of them details personnels Act Act human visée , notamment dapper situation financière and the foreign choice intimes regarding his mode of life . 
deuxièmement , til pouvait qualifier them reports who existent between Act banque and his client of relationship of trust who , suivant the v. Plant , gives instead at series more grande attente fell matière of life privacy relatively at them information fell cause . 
finally , if them information visés étaient fingertips accessibles without intrusion or without the concours of a tiers , he rereads aurait Robbie less of chances that he rereads ait violation of health life privacy of health human concernée . 
fell the espèce , business information acclaimed owed perhaps obtenus by intrusion streets Act banque suisse and with the concours of a tiers , what who underlies at indiquer that the intimé Partnerships series attente reasonable fell matière of life privacy relatively at these information . 
the most , commentator the judge Iacobucci the explique at the paragraph 56 of the v. Schreiber , and I quote : 
health procedure of perquisition and the saisie has been amorcée by the government ' s Canada by Act Presented of series request formelle at the government ' health Switzerland , seen the absence of treaty between them two country . 
health request has been présentée streets the framework of series inquiry canadienne who , perhaps - til présumer , aurait abouti , at the Canada , at the foreign poursuites reprochant at a Quebecer series offence at the Code criminal Heritage . 
the right at Act life privacy , tel that he has been interprété fell vertu of health Charter , protège them persons and non - Provincial lieux . 
the effect Act the individu of series perquisition and the Day saisie of documents bancaires is the same , that royal perquisition and health saisie aient instead at the Canada or fell Switzerland . 
the intimé has series attente reasonable fell matière of life privacy relatively at them information bancaires , somewhat regardless the place where apply trouvent them comptes . 
he is everything at fact reasonable , at mon notice , that the intimé apply attende at what that foreign authorities Forces not puissent solliciter the assistance to them authorities Swiss yeas obtain ses documents bancaires fell Switzerland without obtain series certaine form of Authorized judicial préalable at the Canada . 
the judge Partnerships therefore responded by the affirmative at Act question of Schreiber and he Partnerships recommended the foreign correctifs at them laws Forces yeas corriger unabated imprécision . 
what is exactly what that the bill to Bill S - 4 VI at accomplir . 
the elsewhere , the judge Wetston of health Court fédérale and the judge Linden of health Court of Appeal fédérale are arrivés at them mêmes findings that foreign judges dissidents of health Court Supreme streets the v. Schreiber . 
honourable senators , he is clear that each case is particular . 
what is why the article 4 to the bill to Bill S - 4 introduces that the judge compétent , who may hear Act request ex parte , doit constater that she is conforme at them standards établies by Act Charter canadienne of them rights and freedoms . 
if tel is the case , he can tribute series ordonnance autorisant that royal démarche authorized introductory , analyzed that the exige the article 5 of the bill to Bill No. 
honourable senators , before Act Presented of them other provisions of mon bill to Bill , I query aborder Act question of his application extraterritoriale . 
streets the v. Schreiber , the judge fell Opposition of health Court Supreme has done référence at the application extraterritoriale of health Charter . 
yeas what make , he has utilisé them arrêts Terry and Harrer , who affirmaient clearly that royal proposal that royal Charter not has not to application at the outside of the Canada . 
these two Affairs portaient Act Act conduct of authorities américaines who , agissant at them States - U.S. , specialist recueilli of them statements of suspects of series manner who , well that conforme at the Bill of Rights validate , étaient incompatibles with Act Charter . 
streets them two causes , health Court Supreme has conclu that royal Charter not pouvait régir them mood accomplis by the foreign authorities Foreign streets a country abroad . 
unabated conclusion is compatible with the article 32 of health Charter , who restreint the application of unabated dernière " au Parliament and at the government ' s Canada " and " at Act législature and at the government ' each province " . 
she is also compatible , commentator the has signalé the judge Beverley McLachlin streets the v. Terry , with the principle of health courtesy international . 
according Act Justice , he guardian irréaliste of apply wait at what that foreign authorities Foreign familiar and observent them laws of the Canada . 
honourable senators , streets the case Schreiber , health situation guardian différente . 
already , the judge Wetston of health Court fédérale Partnerships rejeté the argument suivant lequel the fact of respond affirmativement at Act question posée by the intimé reviendrait at appliquer Act Charter extraterritorialement . 
he not has never 3.25 fell question them laws Act the respect to the right at Act life privacy of health Switzerland anguishes of the government ' what country lors of health saisie of them documents bancaires . 
health conduct reprochée fell the espèce is Act preparedness and the envoi of health letter of asking by the foreign agents Airports . 
these agents étaient clearly assujettis at the right Heritage , there including at Act Charter , at the intérieur of the Canada and , streets Act plupart of them case , at the outside of the Canada . 
they étaient nettement visés , at the article 32 of health Charter , fell activist that representatives of the power executive of the " government ' s Canada " . 
who more is , because that they étaient Canadians , he not there Partnerships aucune reason for heed account the Day courtesy international . 
til pouvait therefore apply wait at what that they familiar the right Heritage , there including health Constitution . 
he not guardian not déraisonnable of exiger of eux that they the respectent . 
confirms is particularly true of them agents who agissaient at the name of the prosecutor General and who , the fact , pouvaient wheel of them responsibilities additionnelles découlant of health nature particulière of unabated charge . 
i tiens at mention that the author of health letter not has not done approve the content of health letter by the one of ses supérieurs . 
pourtant , commentator I the mentionnais more earlier , unabated letter affirmait clearly that royal request for assistance Partnerships yeas but the pursue series inquiry criminelle . 
she pouvait give instead at the foreign poursuites at the Canada against a citizen Heritage . 
streets his judgement , the judge Wetston Partnerships conclu at lapage 944 , and I quote : 
[ ... ] if the intimé can perhaps poursuivi at the Canada , I cannot takers not why he not should not wheel right at them benefits accessoires of health Charter 
fell consequential , he has conclu that the intimé Partnerships series attente reasonable fell matière of life privacy . 
after wheel tiré unabated conclusion and wheel analysé Act nature of them informations who specialist been saisies , he has conclu that fell vertu of the article 8 , til exigeait the obtention of series Authorized préalable auprès of a Incumbent of duties judiciaires impartial before that royal letter of asking puisse perhaps expédiée . 
he is therefore clear that royal Charter apply applies to fashion générale at the telles letters of asking . 
some of between you uncovered tentés of say that royal letter of asking not is aucunement assujettie at a review fondé Act the article 8 . Vous utiliserez probably the example of health procedure that doit suivre series province canadienne yeas solliciter the assistance to series another province fell standpoint of the exécution of series fouille , perquisition or saisie . 
currently , business authorities who présentent of telles demandes of assistance not acclaimed not at obtain the Authorized judicial préalable pursuant at the article 8 before the envoyer their request . 
he not apply applies not activist that royal request not has not been reçue , moment where he tangibly obtain a mandate autorisant Act fouille , health perquisition or health saisie . 
bye bearer argument , I répondrai rejecting . 
streets the context Heritage , business authorities who présentent Act request savent that celle - ci fera the objet of a review judicial before the exécution of health fouille , perquisition or saisie Proposed . 
streets the context of the affair Schreiber , at the contrary , til not has not informé Act cour that foreign authorities Swiss auraient examiné the touchstone of health request for fouille , the perquisition , or the saisie présentée by a government abroad . 
we cannot savons not non more damned form prendrait a tel review . 
however , til has mentioned that the snakes apply attendait raisonnablement at what that foreign authorities Swiss donnent subsequently at Act request . 
commentator the has mentioned the judge Iacobucci , at the paragraph 57 of the v. Schreiber , and I quote : 
he is something little formaliste of conclude that royal procedure appliquée at the Canada yeas examiner them demandes of assistance présentées by series province at series another allows the respond completely at Act question soulevée fell the espèce . 
the application of series approach formaliste or légaliste is contrary at Act jurisprudence relative at Act Charter , who recognizes since long that foreign rights garantis by what text repositories perhaps interprétés generously and fell function of the objet visé . 
he is more approprié of appliquer at Act question series approach fondée Act to them principles . 
what outcome is conforme at the interpretation large and libérale constamment appliquée by our Court at the article 8 fell standpoint of " garantir at the citizen the right to perhaps protégé against foreign atteintes of the government at ses expectations raisonnables fell matière of life privacy " . 
no not appliquer the article 8 at Act letter of asking could wheel yeas effect of make tomber stares " between two chaises " the right to the intimé at the respect to dapper life privacy . 
i dis confirms car , account tenu of health situation international fell stake here , nothing not we garantit that the principle of the Authorized judicial préalable has been observé and , fell consequential , the genus of them pierres angulaires of the analysis fondée Act the article 8 has been omise . 
[ 1610 ] 
transport Canadians are protected at the Canada by Act Charter canadienne of them rights and freedoms . 
honourable senators , lors of the debate Act the former projetde bill S - 24 , several of between you aviez soulevé Act question of them costs importants liés at the application of unabated measure . 
i estimated , at Act light of them demandes of them years antérieures , that what process of Authorized judicial préalable rereads perhaps adéquatement géré and that he not entraînera not to costs importants yeas the government federal . 
according them figures fournis by the Department of health Howe of the Canada streets Act statement Subcommittee oath who accompagne the memory of the prosecutor General of the Canada streets the affair Schreiber , the Canada has formulé 79 demandes fell 1992,80 demandes fell 1993 , Issue demandes fell 1994 , 109 demandes fell 1995 and 87,870 demandes fell 1996 . 
we cannot awakened not them figures of them years 1997 and 1998 , but I hope that foreign representatives of the Department of health Howe pourront we them fournir at time lors of the study of what Bill of Bill fell committee . 
i tiens at mention that the bill to Bill S - 24 not door not atteinte at them treaties of assistance mutuelle who lient the Canada at some U.S. étrangers streets the framework of investigations administratives or criminelles . 
the Canada has conclu of them treaties of what type avec16 country . 
i voudrais now aborder Act question of them définitions that the snakes trouve at the article 2 of the bill to Bill S - 24 . 
a agent public abroad is series human who détient a mandate législatif , administratif or judicial of a Crown abroad or who exerce series function Public at the Breast of a Crown abroad . 
what not is not moi who ai created unabated definition . 
she apply inspire the celle prévue at the article 2 of health Act Act Act corruption of agents publics étrangers , who has received Act Assent Royal the 10 December 1998 . 
the autorité compétente visée by unabated bill is the prosecutor General of the Canada , the prosecutor General of series province and blunt human or autorité chargée , at the Canada , the foreign investigations relatives at them offences at them laws fédérales and at their poursuite . 
unabated definition apply inspire the celle prévue streets Act Act Act Act corruption of agents publics étrangers boot précédemment . 
transport offences visées by what Bill of Bill are celles rose trait at them laws fédérales . 
what Bill of Bill is therefore restreint at them laws and at them regulations fédéraux . 
health désignation of the judge compétent varie according Act province . 
the expression " Justice of peace " correspond at celle visée by the article 2 of the Code criminal . 
finally , what Bill of Bill not has not to effect rétroactif . 
fell conclusion , honourable senators , the bill to Bill S - 4 fera fell sorte that the article 8 devra perhaps appliqué when he can help at décourager Act répétition of series conduct purport by the foreign agents Airports , even if health conduct of these agents amène a country abroad at apporter his assistance . 
transport provisions of the bill to Bill feront fell sorte that the Canada not rereads not impose ses propres standards procédurales at the other States . 
by against , he veillera at what that the right at series attente reasonable fell matière of life privacy authorized protégé fell case of fouille or perquisition introductory at the Canada or at the abroad at Act request for agents Airports . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , the senator Nolin we took rose a treaty legal very fouillé Act what who constitue , according him , the objet of the bill to Bill S - 4 . 
i dois say that he me faudra a certain time yeas well understand what that he has said , but I aurais series question at him poser everything of subsequently . 
fell écoutant his intervention , he me has semblé that he Tisserant that royal Constitution introduces already series protection rather adéquate . 
the senator aurait - he the obligeance of résumer them reasons who justifient the adoption of the bill to Bill S - 4 ? 
i know well that he has fallu a certain time and well - Provincial procedures yeas fell arriver là , but , the afternoon ses propos , the interpretation that foreign courts acclaimed donnée of the article 8 assure series protection passablement complète of the right at Act life privacy and also series protection against foreign poursuites abusives , the Government less if the snakes fell Justice of after the affair Schreiber and few other causes . 
the senator Nolin : 
health issue touche directly the essentiel . 
i hope that we pourrons Refer the bill to Bill at a committee , car what is specifically what standpoint that we devons And . 
what is yeas unabated reason that I ai quoted the nombreuses causes entendues by Act Court Supreme . 
fell blunt honesty , health cour contredit them 18 dernières years of decisions regarding the article 8 to health Charter . 
he has fallu much of time yeas établir them various aspects of health protection fell vertu of the article 8 . Position cour has also commitments grandfather soin of determine that seules them authorities Forces petitioners assujetties at Act Charter . 
however , the judgment dissident of them two judges paving more streets the meaning of what that I move at the Parliament , étant rose their analysis of the article 8 . 
what is series question complex , car she nécessite that the Parliament détermine if health protection prévue streets the article 8 door Act the individu or Act the instead where is perpétré the acte . 
i am the notice , commentator them two judges dissidents streets the affair Schreiber , that what is based on individu because that royal Charter protège the individu , non the instead where is perpétré the acte . 
he rereads has strokes , with them years , the nombreuses decisions and series importante jurisprudence Act Act question at Act Court Supreme , and the affair Schreiber is , at mon humble opinion , contradictoire . 
i move that we corrigions confirms . 
streets the affair Schreiber , yeas streamline series affair compliquée , the government suisse is only a agent . 
toutes them other parties impliquées streets bearer together to facts are Forces . 
health request has been introductory by foreign authorities Forces regarding a individu Heritage yeas series future poursuite criminelle at the Canada . 
i cannot know not if I apporte series response adéquate at your question . 
i am certain that you flavour better unabated situation complex when you aurez read mon speech . 
i hope that the Senate arranged of agreement with moi yeas that unabated question authorized renvoyée at the committee . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Cools , the debate is adjourned . ) 
privileges , Rules and procedures 
third report of the committee - Retrait of the article 
the Order of the day appelle : 
Final Report on third report of the Comité Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure ( question of privilege of the senator Kinsella ( , presented at the Sénatle 24 November 1999 . - ( Le hon. Senator Austin , P ) . 
the Honourable Jack Austin : 
the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure has examiné unabated question of privilege at dapper first postponement suivant the referred by the Senate . 
streets his third report , the committee said that he has cherché at perhaps fell measure of heed series postponement at camera closed apply he devenait necessary to examiner correctement Act question of privilege . 
the Clerk of the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure apply is entretenu avecM. Chopra and him has posé two questions . 
he wouldn has asked , the thanking , run he préférait that the committee entende his témoignage at camera closed or fell public , puis , if his syndicat and him ? same voyaient series objection at what that royal question of privilege soulevée by the senator Kinsella authorized étudiée at the committee fell same time that his grief is heard by Act Commission of them relations of work streets Act function Public . 
Koppel . Chopra has answered that he croyait savoir that the Senate not is not a court who suit them rules normales of health Evidence . 
he believes that , fell activist that démarche policy , health postponement of the committee sénatorial doit perhaps Public . 
he not voit aucune objection at what that foreign two examinations aient instead fell same time . 
he déclare at the Clerk that he estimated that a review at camera closed not is at the advantage of human and that he not has nothing at cacher . 
he souhaite only that the examination at the committee authorized fair , public and enough approfondi yeas régler Act question . 
fell more of respond at them two questions , he has also informé that his lawyer the accompagnerait at blunt meeting prévue by the committee Standing , and that he craignait that the Department could apply acharner against him by Act subsequently . 
honourable senators , commentator Act question fell litige consistait at savoir if the committee Standing should sit at camera closed , and that the witness fell question not voit nil inconvénient at participate at series audience ouverte , I request that royal recommendation of heed series audience at camera closed , who consigned streets the third report , authorized withdrawn and that what debate authorized considéré commentator terminé . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
honourable senators , health leave is - she granted to withdraw bearer section ? 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I am étonné of hear the chairman of the committee tell that confirms apply fact after notice and consultation of a witness . 
i cannot believe not that he revienne at a witness the decide how a committee should procéder and streets quelles conditions . 
bye mon notice , he revient at the committee of decide and at the witness the accept them conditions . 
he me seems that the contrary apply authorized product . 
i am very étonné of hear the chairman of the committee ask that royal recommendation of heed Act meeting at camera closed authorized withdrawn - I ignore why she has been présentée - after consultation of a witness . 
what is at the committee that he revient of decide how he should procéder , and Oceans witnesses repositories apply plier at dapper decision , damned that she authorized . 
i me request if them lawyers devraient accompagner them witnesses ; but what is series question secondaire . 
the witness fixed them modalités of dapper appearance , notamment at the topic of savoir if the audience serait Public or at camera closed . 
unabated decision should revert at the committee . 
the senator Austin : 
honourable senators , me autorisez - you at considérer confirms commentator series question and at tenter of there respond ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Austin : 
honourable senators , I am the notice that he is perfectly approprié that the committee particulars fell considération the risk auquel apply exposerait a witness apply he rereads Partnerships series question of privilege . 
well course , the committee prendra Act decision . 
however , I think that he serait éminemment equitable that the committee tienne account the Government risk auquel could apply exposer a witness and that he wouldn circulation savoir how he entend procéder . 
i think that he serait also equitable that the committee Standing gives at the witness Act possibility of him express his standpoint of standpoint . 
honourable senators , the witness has the intent of subpoenas and I believe that he comparaîtra appeared the committee Standing Tuesday next . 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
honourable senators , I voudrais poser series question at the Honourable Senator Austin . 
when he has presented them facts , the senator has said that the witness has déclaré at the Clerk that he craignait that the Department could " apply acharner against him by Act subsequently " . 
that signifie " apply acharner against him by Act subsequently " fell parlant of them consequences yeas his employment apply he comparaît appeared a committee sénatorial ? 
the senator Austin : 
honourable senators , I rapportais simply what that the witness Partnerships said at the Clerk of the committee . 
i cannot think not that I devrais respond at your question , puisque everything what that I pourrais say relèverait of series hypothèse . 
i cannot possède not to other information sur the meaning queM. Chopra voulait give at unabated expression . 
the senator Oliver : 
the Honourable Senator craignait - he that he authorized victim of intimidation and that he remembered expose at the graves repercussions ? 
the senator Austin : 
i thank the Honourable Senator of me help at respond at the senator Lynch - Staunton . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
he me seems that til aurait avoided the consult yeas savoir if , at his opinion , he convenait of procéder at camera closed . 
he has su what who faces passait only when Act motion has been Proposed fell unabated enceinte . 
if a witness told that til could apply acharner against him , he me seems that we devrions obtain a little more of informations Act unabated affirmation at the instead of us settle the one ouï - say regarding what who has been déclaré at the Clerk of the committee and the foreign waves explanations of his chairman . 
if the audience apply tient , we aurons appeared we a witness who faces sent menacé , or who faces expose at the foreign threats , or who craint yeas his employment because that he témoigne appeared a committee sénatorial . 
is - what Act situation which we attend Tuesday next ? 
the senator Austin : 
honourable senators , we verrons well what who faces passera Tuesday . 
the countdown rendu reflètera them propos of the witness . 
i cannot believe not that til gagne whereupon that what authorized at poser analyzed of them questions hypothétiques . 
well course , I ai discussed with the senator Kinsella of dapper question of privilege . 
transport colleagues on the Honourable Senator Lynch - Staunton are members of the committee , there including the vice - chairman , the senator Normand . 
they are at the courant of each measure prise here and appuient the third report débattu at the committee . 
if I cannot dispel not consult them colleagues on the Honourable Senator , and that I dois consult something a result another , I query that til me the dise . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I thank the chairman of the committee Standing of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure yeas the work of his committee at bearer regard . 
we awakened strokes the opportunity to discuss briefly he rereads has few days . 
fortunately , he not apply notional not to a case where a committee décide of heed series postponement at camera closed yeas hear a hon. Senator who wants partager of them information pertinents at the work of the committee . 
otherwise , the senator apply retrouverait streets Act situation difficult where , everything fell étant against Act tenue of sittings at camera closed , he should or désirerait there assister . 
he remembered notional of a case rather hypothétique , but them events décrits by the senator Austin me satisfont . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave has been granted . 
plaît - he at the Senate to withdraw bearer section ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( the article is retiré . ) 
health freedom religieuse fell China fell report with them pactes internationaux of them Nations Nations 
inquiry - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act the inquiry of the Honourable Senator Wilson , calling the attention of the Senate Act Act freedom religieuse fell China fell report with them pactes internationaux of them Nations Nations . - ( 
the Honourable Senator Austin , P ) 
the Honourable Jack Austin : 
honourable senators , the Wednesday 24 November 1999 , the Honourable Senator Lois Wilson has attiré the attention of the Senate Act Act freedom religieuse fell China fell report with them pactes internationaux of them Nations Nations . 
ses observations reposaient Act dapper vast experience of them Affairs religieuses . 
our hon. colleague has acted commentator modérateur auprès of the Church united of the Canada . 
his intervention faisait subsequently at a trip staff that the Honourable Senator has done fell activist that member of health delegation of the Council Heritage of them Églises , who has done a séjour fell China of the 23 October at the 5 November . 
much of Canadians , here same at the Senate and everywhere at the Canada , run intéressent of close at them questions liées at them rights of health human , particularly at Act way whose these values , who are criticism according our own concept of them relations Resources and the Day stability social , are respectées fell China . 
what regard Act Act China is inexorable yeas Act simple reason that royal population of what country represents approximately 23p. cent of health population World . 
transport systems of values and Oceans practices of series if grande proportion of health population of the world are essentielles at the établissement of series society humaine peaceful and Progressive at the échelle World . 
til has the foreign preuves claires who montrent that royal China wants promote the respect to them rights of health human at the Breast of health society chinoise afin of libérer Act creativity of the Inuvialuit chinois streets Act modernization economic and social of health China . 
the report of the senator Wilson is , at mon notice , fair , balanced and exact fell what who has trait at Act freedom of religion fell China . 
fell fact , the invitation lancée at the Council Heritage of them Églises yeas that he remembered rende fell China and expecting Act freedom of religion is , fell se , series expression of health volonté of health China of engager series discussion ouverte and a dialogue constructif at the topic of health freedom of religion commentator a result them aspects fondamentaux of them rights of health human . 
commentator streets blunt society , til doit fixer of them limits at Act freedom afin of garantir that royal freedom she - even can perhaps préservée and améliorée . 
how find bearer balance is a éternel paradoxe . 
a judge britannique of the century last has strokes at juger series cause where the défendeur Partnerships crié at the gun streets a théâtre bondé . 
he not there Partnerships not to incendie , but them people who étaient streets Act Room acclaimed paniqué and much acclaimed been blessés fell apply ruant toward them sorties . 
health defence has allégué the right at Act freedom of parole , the right to say no regardless whereupon not regardless where without regard at them consequences . 
streets his judgement , the judge has conclu that person cannot pouvait apply serve the Day freedom of parole yeas say délibérément or the way insouciante a mensonge who risk of causer of the wrongly at the other persons of series way that a man reasonable could prévoir . 
the idea that acclaimed them Chinois of them limits at Act freedom of religion is fondée Act to them values culturelles and the foreign experiences historiques différentes of them guardian . 
health taille of health China and dapper vulnérabilité at Act dissension Internal , at the invasion by the foreign étrangers and at well - other factors engendrent the pragmatisme of the autorité étatique and the Government autorité familiale yeas make régner Act peace and the Order . 
transport traditions of responsibility collective existent since the foreign centuries and , fell fact , laughed been développées yeas ensure Act security and health survival of the unity social , that what authorized Act family , the village , the comté or health province . 
the control of the behaviour of them individus guardian perçu commentator essentiel at Act security and at the course - perhaps the Government unity . 
we reconnaîtrions unabated practice streets Act maxime of John Stewart Mill , who décrit Act policy social britannique commentator visant " the most grandfather bonheur yeas the most grandfather number " . 
Évidemment , streets Act reality , the autoritarisme apply accompagne often of what défaut timeless that is the attitude arbitraire , unabated attitude who never comporte aucune measure of protection against the inequity , the immoralité and the Unborn - respect to them practices and the foreign standards conformes at the Ethics . 
well that royal China authorized loin of Welfare the country ' more corrompu of the world , health corruption there is still a problem grave streets series society who complements of entreprendre Act transition of series economy dirigée apply inspirant of the model marxiste at series economy of market socialiste , what is - at - say series economy of market at the meaning where we the entendons , but series economy still dirigée of manner stratégique and réglementée at the moyen of plans quinquennaux and the measures to monitoring of the performance . 
apply he not done nil doubt that the regime policy of health China apply inspire the Government autoritarisme , he is also true that foreign Chinois apply accommodent well - their freedoms Economic and payroll and that they not acclaimed never been also well since the foreign centuries . 
the government ' health China not emploie can - perhaps not them mêmes méthodes that the government ' s Canada yeas gouverner , but he tient really at improve Act life of dapper population at the instead of apply settle the enrichir the group at the power , commentator confirms apply fact streets of other countries . 
the Canada apply is engagé Act several fronts with Act China , what who démontre well his attachement croissant at the respect to them rights of health human streets the meaning individualiste where we the entendons . 
we awakened of them groups of study mixtes Act Act practice legal and judicial who mettent the accent Act to them values commentator the burden of health Evidence , the right to garder the silence , the independence of the power judicial and the role of a system of advisors legal independent . 
commentator them honourable senators ' savent , fell 1998 , the Parliament of the Canada has overburdened Act foot series association legislative canado - chinoise of concert with the Congress attain of the Inuvialuit . 
two meetings of parliamentarians acclaimed strokes instead , series fell China , fell November 1998 , at laquelle acclaimed attended 12 parliamentarians Airports , there including the foreign senators , and series another when the foreign members importants of the Congress attain of the Inuvialuit acclaimed visited Ottawa , Toronto , Winnipeg and Victoria yeas échanger of them opinions with the foreign legislators fédéraux and provinciaux . 
Incidence them subjects abordés , he rereads has strokes Act practice legislative , the role of our Opposition official , business limits imposées at the government streets the process législatif , business rules of procedure and the rest . 
transport Chinois are very intéressés at us understand . 
the our side , we analyzed intéressés at savoir how they perçoivent the idea that a debate peaceful not conduit not at series instability social and political , but accroît Act stability . 
transport honourable senators not savent can - perhaps not that the committee Joint Canada - China of them rights of health human has been created by the minister of them Foreign Foreign , Lloyd Axworthy , fell April 1997 . 
what committee VI at entretenir a dialogue Standing Act them rights of health human between them two country fell mettant everything particularly the accent Act the Covenant international Covenant at them rights civilians and political and the Covenant international Covenant at them rights Economic , Cultural and Cultural , that foreign two country acclaimed signés but who never acclaimed not yet been ratifiés by the Congress attain of the Inuvialuit . 
Incidence them subjects precise abordés by the committee Joint , he rereads has them rights of them women and the foreign children , business rights of them stir , business nouvelles rules of procedure pénale , health collaboration bilatérale Act them rights of health human , health collaboration international impact them rights of health human , business rights of them minorities and the foreign Peoples aboriginal , and health freedom of religion . 
health récente visit fell China of the senator Wilson , patron of health delegation canadienne Act them freedoms religieuses , run is introductory Subcommittee them auspices of the committee Joint . 
he me tangibly also specifying that the committee Joint is constamment active and lobbyist without relâche . 
transport Members Airports members of the committee apply are rendus Act the terrain streets Act province of the Yunnan , where the snakes trouve a grandfather number of minorities ethniques , and at the Tibet , where the debate apply Turcot Act Act question of health freedom of religion . 
transport Members chinois members of the committee acclaimed understandings at eux visited Ottawa , Winnipeg and Whitehorse . 
health issue of Falun Gong has been discutée lors of series postponement of the committee Joint at Beijing them 8 et9 November 1999 . Le 4 November , health issue has been soulevée of nouveau by the senator Wilson and dapper delegation when they acclaimed rencontré of them hauts dignitaires at them bureaux of the Department of them Foreign Foreign of China , at Beijing . 
confirms étant said , he regardless of understanding that he existe series foule of questions liées at them practices chinoises fell matière of Rights of health human who attireront our attention streets them months at venir . 
transport vastes reforms Economic fell surveillance fell China are at the origin of disorders Cultural and political , business million for Chinois sacrifiés Act the autel of the efficience economic not rose not access at a system of security social similar at gerrymandering that we awakened at the Canada . 
transport niveaux Cultural and Economic inférieurs are particularly indignés by Act corruption fell China . 
the behaviour arbitraire of them simples officials , notamment streets the footnotes - country , is series cause of dissension . 
til remarque of the agitation policy at the Tibet and streets the Xinjiang where is établie series minorité turque and musulmane . 
the government chinois continuera of accorder Act priority at Act stability rather than at them reforms structurelles of the system policy and legal . 
bref , since 20 years , the énormes progress acclaimed been réalisés at the chapter of them rights of health human fell China , and I estimated that unabated trend apply maintiendra . 
the accession of health China at the Organization World of the trade constituera a important stimulant . 
the Canada and health China acclaimed signed their entente Act the accession of health China at the OMC at Toronto , Friday last , the 26 November , at the opportunity to health meeting Annual of quelque250 members of the Canada - China Business Council . 
the OMC is a system of rules commerciales comprenant a process of settlement of them différends . 
health China has clearly souscrit at the principle of health primauté of the right . 
streets them years at venir , she approfondira dapper compréhension and dapper implementation fell practice of what principle . 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
i query poser series question at the Honourable Senator . 
what that he has déclaré Act the fact that foreign Chinois apply dirigent toward series economy of market , but with series direction very centralisée , me has intéressé . 
health next once that mon colleague arranged fell China yeas series meeting of the group législatif canado - chinois , run chargera he ' allegiances fell Custody them Chinois fell their expliquant that the Canada has essayé Act same formula streets them years 80 , with the foreign initiatives telles that the AEIE and the Program énergétique attain , and that confirms apply is avéré a disaster total ? 
the senator Austin : 
i vais traiter Act question of the senator Murray commentator a argument . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Di Nino , the debate is adjourned . ) 
the Estimates for them Estimates for 1999 - 2000 
notice of Motion Convey Authorized at the committee of them finances nationales at And them Budgets of them Estimates - Adjourned of the debate 
the Honourable Lowell Murray , pursuant at the avisdu 1er December 1999 , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them finances nationales authorized authorized at And , afin of fell make report , business Estimates projetées streets the Estimates for them Estimates yeas the fiscal financier apply ending the 31 March 2000 ; and 
that the committee présente his report at the most tardle 31 March 2000 . 
motion of amendment 
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud : 
honourable senators , I query propose an amendment at unabated motion subsequently at series meeting of the committee of them fisheries , yesterday evening . 
bearer amendment has been accepted at the unanimously by all levels members of the committee : 
that royal motion authorized modifiée , by adjonction , after them mots , " the Estimates for them Estimates yeas the fiscal financier apply ending the 31 March 2000 " , the what who suit : 
" at the exception of them appropriation 1 , 5 and 10 of them Fisheries and Oceans ; 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them fisheries authorized authorized at And them Estimates projetées of them Fisheries and Oceans contenues streets the Estimates for them Estimates yeas the fiscal apply ending the 31 March 2000 ; and 
that the Comité présente his report at the most later the 31 March 2000 . 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
unabated question has suscité series very vive discussion at our committee of them finances nationales the another day . 
bye our opinion , even if them appropriation of the government commitments streets a sense global are renvoyés at the committee of them finances nationales , nothing not empêche a another committee Standing of the Senate to apply make Refer them appropriation of the Department who intéressent what committee . 
transport members of the committee of them finances nationales apply objectent at what that his mandate more global authorized dilué of series way or the genus another . 
i me contente of ajourner the debate yeas permettre at condolences colleagues on there participate . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I ai series question of the senator Murray regarding the état of the Estimates Main of them Estimates before Act prorogation . 
he me seems that foreign positions budgétaies of the Department of them Fisheries acclaimed been étudiés by the committee of them fisheries at the surveillance of health dernière session . 
i me request if the senator Murray could explain what change apparent of position . 
i comprends that royal Ruling has changed , but why what change the position between Act dernière session and health présente session , particularly fell termes of what that guardian the committee of them fisheries and the Hon. review of the budget of them Estimates for the Department of them Fisheries ? 
the committee voulait hear them testimony of them officials of the Department and the other Act series question who the préoccupait particularly . 
the most , I cannot think not that what is Act first once that series part of the budget of them Estimates for a department authorized examinée by a committee particular . 
streets the another House , what is certainly analyzed that they procèdent yeas them Budgets of them Estimates , if I cannot me abuse . 
i souligne Act manner whose we traitons the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) , yeas lequel some appropriation acclaimed been renvoyés at them committees mixtes fell reason for them practices of the another House . 
we awakened renvoyé them appropriation rose trait at them languages Languages and at Act Library of the Parliament at them committees mixtes competent . 
i apprécierais series response at unabated question . 
the senator Murray : 
honourable senators , I essaierai of there respond . 
i ai been chairman of what committee during a 2000 or two he rereads has already a certain time , and I ai repris Act Ruling at the surveillance of unabated session . 
health coutume at the Senate wants that til veterinary the Estimates Main of them Estimates and the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates at the committee sénatorial Standing of them finances nationales . 
since few years , because that the other committees permanents acclaimed souhaité examiner them forecasts budgétaires yeas them departments whose they apply occupent , we awakened decided to withdraw them forecasts budgétaires of these departments donnés of the mandate of the committee sénatorial Standing of them finances nationales . 
i ai saisi condolences colleagues on unabated question at the committee ' another day and they apply are opposés at unabated practice . 
they specialist two motifs , if I cannot me abuse , and I dispel you say that the foreign senators expérimentés commentator them senators Cools , Bolduc and Doody étaient everything at fact against unabated practice . 
their first reason , what is that the committee sénatorial Standing of them finances nationales is the committee chargé of And them forecasts budgétaires and he convient therefore the Refer these forecasts globalement at our committee . 
confirms said , they prétendent that nothing not empêche a another committee Standing of obtaining the mandate of the Senate to apply concentrer Act them forecasts budgétaires yeas a department fell particular . 
their second motif guardian that , if we tenons yeas acquis that blunt study by a another committee Standing of them forecasts budgétaires of the Department whose he remembered occupies doit apply make at the détriment of the mandate of the committee sénatorial Standing of them finances nationales , Robbie what not serait not possible . 
series once ma motion adoptée , even with several amendments , the committee sénatorial Standing of the Agriculture and the foreign Forestry , by example , not could not entreprendre series study of them forecasts budgétaires of the Department of the Agriculture . 
i think therefore that we cannot devrions not accept that a committee Standing authorized empêché fell whereupon that what authorized to And fell depth them forecasts budgétaires of a department fell particular the Government odyssey fact that foreign forecasts budgétaires acclaimed been renvoyées globalement at the committee sénatorial Standing of them finances nationales . 
confirms could perhaps différent if we devions prendre of them measures yeas what who is the approve them forecasts budgétaires notamment . 
commentator the Honourable Senator the knows , what not is not the case . 
we cynicism report Act them forecasts budgétaires with our points of standpoint and our recommendations , but we cannot impotent not appelés at approve these forecasts budgétaires fell votant . 
the senator Robichaud : 
honourable senators , I voudrais explain them reasons of the amendment that I move at the name of the chairman of the committee and the foreign members of the committee of them fisheries . 
when the senator Murray has proposed the adjournment of the debate Act Act motion , I cannot me am not levé puisque the senator Hays the has done . 
but if I puis , honourable senators , I query you say that the committee not wants not create the precedent . 
lors of health first session of health dernière législature , the committee of them fisheries Partnerships received a Order of referred . 
you you rappellerez that series motion Partnerships been acceptée at bearer effect . 
what is the elsewhere what that we awakened fact , and the minister has rencontré the committee at three occasions . 
he serait streets the interest of the Senate that what committee apply penche Act these estimés and questionne the minister streets the but the savoir how he met all these programs fell application . 
streets what report presented the year dernière , health seventeenth recommendation stipulait that foreign estimés of the Estimates for the Department of them Fisheries and the foreign Oceans soient référés at the committee of them fisheries . 
what report has been passed the 16 June at the unanimously by unabated House . 
what is therefore Act what report and based unabated motion , who acclaimed been adoptés , that apply basic the committee yeas continue the study of the budget of them Estimates for the Department of them Fisheries and the foreign Oceans . 
i you assure that he not is nullement streets the intent of the committee of them fisheries of empiéter Act the mandate of a another committee . 
i believe firmly and sincèrement that our role serait rather of you help , puisque if you prostituted at considérer them Budgets of all levels departments , you not aurez certainly not the time to make testify composite of them ministers , their officials or advisors . 
the committee has a little more the time yeas And the budget puisque he remembered notional of a odyssey Department . 
we the awakened fact the 2000 last . 
we ourselves impotent well acquittés of unabated responsibility fell recevant the minister . 
fell présentant our report analyzed that series recommendation acceptée at the unanimously , we voulons everything simply continue streets Act same veine . 
the Honourable Anne C . Cools : 
honourable senators , I voudrais understand exactly what who faces proceeded here . 
more earlier , the senator Murray has said that he voulait ajourner the debate and parler more later . 
impotent - we fell plein debate or well the senator Murray apply apprête he at propose finally the adjournment ? 
his Honour the Speaker : 
hon. Senator Cools , we analyzed currently saisis of health motion of amendment to the Honourable Senator Robichaud . 
the senator Murray : 
honourable senators , I me apprêtais at propose the adjournment of the debate , but blocks that I ai seen that the other honourable voulaient continue , I me am assis well évidemment yeas that the debate puisse apply pursue . 
the senator Cools : 
i think therefore that I devrais add few mots at the debate . 
he me seems that few questions apply posent at us . 
til could them classer fell two catégories , health grande and health petite . 
health grande question , commentator the has if well said : Senator Murray , what is the mandate and Oceans powers of the committee Standing sénatorial of them finances nationales regarding the examination of the budget of them Estimates , analyzed that the right that has what committee ' right to recevoir the entirety of what budget yeas his review . 
i believe that what that the senator Robichaud réclame fell gros , what is the right or the power to a committee of ask a mandate of the Senate yeas And some appropriation who the intéressent streets the budget of them Estimates . 
we cherchons today today at the restore . 
the 4 March 1999 , by subsequently of the debate tenu Act veille , what is - at - say the 3 March , the senator Carstairs has proposed : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them finances nationales authorized authorized at And , afin of fell make report , business Estimates projetées streets the Estimates for them Estimates yeas the fiscal financier apply ending the 31 March 2000 , at the exception of them appropriation 1 , 5 and 10 of Fisheries and Oceans , the Government credit 10 of the Parliament and the Government credit 25 of the Council private . 
the senator Robichaud souhaite fell fact réactiver what mandate . 
if the snakes revient at the debate which has strokes instead the 3 March , til voit well that foreign senators Stewart and Comeau specialist solemn presented unabated request . 
we devons régler unabated question . 
bye the évidence , what is the one or the another . 
series practice of health House of them Commons is subrepticement Act the standpoint of apply favouring at the Senate . 
well that I voie not to inconvénient at what that , streets some cases , the foreign appropriation soient submitted at the examination of différents committees , I cannot souhaite not that confirms devienne series practice sénatoriale courante and that each once that we analyzed saisis of the budget of them Estimates , that the study of these appropriation authorized déférée at them committees . 
confirms étant said , I attends Act response to the senator Comeau . 
voilà Act question that we devons trancher . 
yeas the immédiat , however , he remembered notional of savoir if the committee of the senator Robichaud , the committee sénatorial apply interesting at Fisheries and Oceans , perhaps perhaps solemn habilité at examiner these appropriation . 
we pourrons régler the another question ultérieurement . 
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs : 
transport mandats of the committee are limpides . 
the odyssey committee that the rules autorise at And the budget of them Estimates for a department is the committee sénatorial Standing of them finances nationales . 
he not is question of nil another committee streets what rules . 
however , the rules said that foreign committees arresting And of them questions fell General . 
til présume that , the Government standpoint of the government , series study générale of them fisheries should manifestement englober the study of the budget of them Estimates . 
except everything the respect that I you dois , he particulars can - perhaps éclaircir unabated question and tribute series decision at bearer regard . 
confirms risk of us causer of them problems . 
we awakened certes strokes of them problems , health week dernière , when we awakened unsuccessfully of Refer a bill to Bill at two committees simultanément . 
we awakened déterminé that what not guardian not Act good way of make . 
he faudra can - perhaps clarify the rules . 
the fact , Your Honour , you pourriez decide to Refer Act question at the committee of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure , if you préférez not not accountable unabated decision you - even . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I am everything at fact of agreement with them propos of the senator Carstairs . 
i query add that Le section 86 indique clearly that what is at the committee sénatorial of them finances nationales of And them comptes nationaux and Oceans finances translated . 
regarding the committee sénatorial of them fisheries , the rules said : 
[ ... ] Act Order of the Senate , business bills of Bill , messages , petitions , interpellations , papers and other Contents regarding Casual fisheries fell General . 
what is proprement the mandate of what committee . 
frankly , what is the role of the committee of them finances nationales of And globalement them comptes financiers of the country . 
he is everything naturel that the foreign committees éprouvent a interest yeas some departments rose to them programs . 
also , he is logical of And the budget of what Department yeas savoir if them programs fell question atteignent or non the but the Day bill regarding the Department fell question . 
he is pertinent yeas the committee of them fisheries of introduce series motion afin of recevoir the Order of the Senate yeas procéder at series study , if celle - ci inclut fell same time to them elements financiers regarding what Department . 
the mandate octroyé by the rules at the committee of them finances nationales is completely différent . 
fell what who pertains them studies comportant a interest attain , he rereads has always series question financière , and he serait important to no not interdire at them committees Act possibility of the And . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
hon. Senator Murray , you prostituted already commitments Act parole . 
prostituted - you the intent of propose your motion and the ajourner the debate ? 
the senator Murray : 
your Honour , if you êtes loan at tribute series decision or at say that you allez prendre Act question fell advisement , arrêtons - we là . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
i query , if you the permettez , make a commentaire . 
health practice has been the Refer the Estimates for them Estimates at some committees . 
i believe that we the awakened already done at the surveillance of unabated session streets the case of them languages Languages . 
the budget of health Library of the Parliament has also been renvoyé at a committee . 
when I étais member of committees , he arrivait often , if I me souviens well , that a committee which voulait see her mandate élargi request that til him veterinary the budget of them Estimates . 
confirms him donnait blunt latitude of examiner what that he voulait streets the Department , without another referred to health share of the Senate . 
what not is perhaps - perhaps not series good practice , but I know that til there has strokes Points by the past . 
transport senators arresting streets what case contester what that they veulent at the topic of the Department . 
health practice actuelle allows only at them committees of examiner them questions who their are renvoyées . 
health way of procéder is series question that odyssey the Senate may régler . 
however , he existe a precedent . 
the senator Carstairs : 
your Honour , we pourrions can - perhaps régler unabated question of health way suivante : we pourrions ask at the senator Robichaud of withdraw dapper motion of amendment ; we pourrions ensuite adopt Act motion visant at Refer the budget of them Estimates at the committee of them finances nationales ; puis we pourrions ask Act leave of revert at them motions , what who permettrait at the senator Robichaud of propose that the budget of them Estimates for Fisheries and Oceans authorized examined by the committee of them fisheries . 
what faisant , we cannot affaiblirions not the mandate of the committee attain of them finances , but we donnerions at the committee of them fisheries the power to And the budget of them Estimates for Fisheries and Oceans . 
i cannot know not if what is là series way of apply ressortir of the dilemma , but what could well fell perhaps series . 
the senator Murray : 
honourable senators , I cannot takers not why we cannot pourrions not agir of health sorte . 
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin : 
honourable senators , I vais jeter series poignée of sable streets the engrenage . 
the committee of them Affairs Foreign has also a interest streets unabated question and I move : adjournment of the debate . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Corbin , the debate is adjourned . ) 
finances nationales 
Authorized at the committee of diffuser ses deliberations by the foreign afford électroniques 
the Honourable Lowell Murray , pursuant at the notice of the 1er December 1999 , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them finances nationales authorized habilité at permettre the reportage of ses deliberations translated by foreign media of information électronique , fell dérangeant the least possible ses travaux . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
Authorized at the committee of engager of the staff 
the Honourable Lowell Murray , pursuant at the notice du1er December 1999 , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them finances nationales authorized habilité at retenir them services of advisors legal , the staff technical , the employees of office and the other persons at the need , yeas help the committee at examiner them bills of Bill , health seams of these derniers and Oceans forecasts who him acclaimed been déférées . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
adjournment 
leave rose been granted to revert at them Notice of Motion to the government : 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the alinéa 58 ( 1 ) 1:30 ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that , when the Senate apply adjourns today today , what authorized at Monday next , the 6 December 1999 , at 4:00 hours . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
( the Senate apply ajourne at the Monday 6 December 1999 , at 4:00 hours . ) 
debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
2e Session , Session Session , 
volume 138 , Issue 16 
the Monday 6 December 1999 
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker 
table of them Contents 
statements STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
health Journée national of commémoration 
the tenth anniversary of health tragedy of the École polytechnique 
health Nova Scotia Nova 
the four - vingt - second anniversary of the outburst of Halifax 
statistique Canada 
transport data of census - Ex origin ethnic " canadienne " - Ex effect Act them opportunities for marketing 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
depository of the report of the committee Act Act part 1 
depository of the report of the committee Act them parties 2 at 5 
transport and Communications 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at permettre Act diffusion of ses deliberations by foreign media of information électroniques 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at And the état of the system of health 
transport rights of health human and Oceans conflits multiethniques 
notice of inquiry 
transport data of the census 
Presented of petitions 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
health defence national 
the Timor oriental - Ex état of them helicopters Sea King 
health justice 
health possibility of modify the Code criminal relatively at the harassment criminal - Ex influence of the bill to Bill S - 6 
transport transport 
health regulators of a éventuel monopoly streets the sector of the transportation aérien of travellers - Possibility policy self 
the v. of them operations of health company aérienne InterCanadien - Ex service at them small communities 
health regulators of a éventuel monopoly streets the sector of the transportation aérien of them travellers - Possibility policy self 
the trade international 
the failure to them discussions at the Organization World of the trade - Comments grants agricultural of them States members - Ex assistance at them farmers Airports . 
answer différée at series question orale 
health health 
health regulators of them products of équarrissage - Possibility policy of the government 
transport travaux of the Senate 
Points at the rules - Points of health Ruling 
orders OF THE 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
second reading 
referred at the committee 
motion Convey directive at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology of scinder the bill to Bill fell two - Adjourned of the debate 
health Act Act the casier judicial 
bill to Bill Amend - Rapport of the committee - Adjourned of the debate 
the Union Monetary European 
the report of the committee of them Affairs Foreign Act the study - Stands of the debate 
the SENATE 
the Monday 6 December 1999 
health postponement is ouverte at 4:00 hours , the Speaker étant at the fauteuil . 
prayers . 
health Journée national of commémoration 
the tenth anniversary of health tragedy of the École polytechnique 
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn : 
honourable senators , fell me rendant here today today , I étais very triste at Act journalistic that he rereads has ten years already , 14 young women étudiantes of the École polytechnique of the University of Montreal acclaimed been tuées by a jeune fou armé at the surveillance of a after - afternoon well ordinaire . 
honourable colleagues , I am particularly triste at Act journalistic that despite the choc and health répugnance that unabated tragedy has causés , health vast publicity which fell has been introductory and health sensibilisation of the public at what topic , health violence against foreign women and Oceans children continues to croître at the country and elsewhere at the world . 
bye the least 51p. cent of toutes them women Forces - more of 16 years acclaimed fact the experience of at the least one incident of what that the Code criminal définit commentator of health violence physical or sexual , and Oceans agressions sexuelles représentent close de10p. cent of all levels crimes of violence at the country . 
we awakened progressé at the surveillance of them ten dernières years , thanks at bon number of défenseurs acharnés , the foreign two sides of the Senate , and I think particularly at the foreign women commentator Mrs. the senator Sheila Finestone , ex - Minister of health Condition féminine . 
we awakened also fact of them progress thanks at a number of more fell more grandfather of colleagues and the friends masculins who faces are engagés at appuyer Act lutte against Act violence . 
we awakened amended them laws . 
transport campaigns of sensibilisation apply poursuivent and tirent profit from unabated journée national of commémoration . 
however , honourable senators , I estimated that we cannot awakened not yet succeeded at reduce the way sérieuse the intolérance , health poverty , the lack of estimated of se and the compréhension humaine who servent of foyer of incubation at Act violence . 
thin acclaimed been choisies because that what guardian of them women and , done still more perturbateur chez him , because that he them voyait commentator of them féministes . 
bye the incorrigible of them years , I ai supported the foreign women commeSuzanne Laplante - Edward , health same of series of them jeune victims , Anne - Marie ; Heidi Rathjen , étudiante and amie of bon number of them daughters tuées ; and Wendy Cukier , who has contributed at Act implementation Act foot of health Coalition yeas the control of them weapons . 
the nombreux colleagues on health House venant of all levels parties acclaimed collaboré at what file important . 
what fut series enormous croisade Public whose the success apply mesurera fell dernière analysis when business attitudes changeront and that foreign statistics auront régressé . 
he rereads fingertips of them progress when Act cellule familiale at the Breast of our society and the system which the supports trouveront series way of inculquer at them children of them values reposant Act Act bonté and health generosity and non Act a fond of war and the violence humaine and based on acquiescement muet according lequel the evil who is done derrière of them doors closes not doit not préoccuper a country . 
i query say at Suzanne Laplante - Edward and at all levels other members of them families who acclaimed series daughter or series soeur whose we commémorons today today ' souvenir that we progressons well Act Act voie of the success fell évoquant Act memory of them their . 
we cannot pouvons there arriver that fell trouvant them resources , business méthodes and Oceans alliances between men and women of our society who permettront of reduce Act haine , health frustration and health crainte . 
honourable senators , we analyzed much too lents at us fell preoccupation . 
we devons certes at Act memory of them 14 young girls who reposent fell peace at Montreal since 1989 and at them thousands of other victims of our society of consentir the effort Special who permettra of accomplir what work blocks now . 
the Honourable Erminie J . Cohen : 
honourable senators , I interviens today today at the opportunity to health Journée national of commémoration and the Action against Act violence introductory at them women . 
what is today today ' tenth anniversary of the massacre of Montreal . 
the 6 December 1999 has been a moment essentiel streets the history of the Canada . 
bearer horrible carnage who has duré 20 minutes is considéré commentator the worst massacre connu commis fell series Gotcha journée and he has been the day the most sombre of our history . 
what crime of haine has attiré the attention Act them victims of health violence dirigée against foreign women fell activist that telles , what who faces imposait . 
the massacre has montré at them women and at them men that royal violence against foreign women is series énigme well réelle and menaçante at the intérieur of series society who faces enorgueillit of Welfare civilisée and compatissante . 
transport Canadians not are more fell measure of prétendre that the foreign crimes of haine of what kind not apply produisent that chez our neighbours of the south . 
unfortunately , health violence against foreign women continues to perhaps series reality at the Canada . 
the foreign épouses , the foreign mothers , the foreign daughters , the foreign soeurs and the foreign amies are violées , agressées and assassinées all levels days . 
what is also a fact that foreign authors of these crimes are generally of them men . 
what are the foreign maris , the foreign conjoints , the foreign neighbours and the foreign meilleurs friends . 
the status Housing or health situation economic regardless little . 
transport men and Oceans women repositories apply élever against unabated situation honteuse . 
these young women who specialist blunt their lives at vivre méritaient much better than confirms . 
today today , we devons non only we remind the thin and the foreign another victims of violence , but also we engager at nouveau at allegiances a term at what terrible fléau . 
the 6 December 1999 deserves series reflection national Act series épidémie who afflige still our society . 
streets everything the country , the foreign ceremonies acclaimed instead yeas honorer them 14 young women who acclaimed seen analyzed their lives écourtée . 
no oublions that what is our responsibility at all streets Act society of éliminer all levels types of violence everywhere . 
honourable senators , health violence is a problem of society auquel we devons all we attaquer , that he remembered agisse of health violence raciste , the Day violence familiale , the Day violence introductory at them children , the Day violence against foreign women and against foreign members of minorities ethniques or telecommunications gais and lesbiennes . 
a nouveau phenomenon is apparu : Act violence streets them surveillance of école . 
she is very répandue at the hour actuelle and she is totalement unacceptable streets series society civile . 
what is a grave problem that all levels Canadians repositories contributing at éliminer . 
the Honourable Shirley Maheu : 
honourable senators , I widow prendre Act parole today today yeas souligner the triste and famous tenth anniversary of health tragedy of the École polytechnique of Montreal . 
we ourselves souviendrons that the 6 December 1989,14 young women acclaimed lost Act life at them mains of a man who never Partnerships that a but : tuer of them women . 
his acte of haine has blessé all levels Canadians and has changed Act way whose much of between us voyaient Act violence against foreign women . 
what is yeas unabated reason that each year since 1991 , we ourselves rappelons of unabated tragedy . 
what is also yeas unabated reason that the 6 December has been désigné commentator Act Journée national of commémoration and the Action against Act violence dirigée against foreign women . 
what massacre we took fact prendre conscience that several Canadiennes étaient victims of violence and that series telle situation guardian unacceptable . 
the nombreuses measures acclaimed been prises afin of contrer what problem , but he remains yet much at make . 
i widow also say at them parents and friends of Barbara Daigneault , Natalie Croteau , Hélène Colgan , Sonia Pelletier , Anne - Marie Lemay , Annie Saint - Arnault , Geneviève Bergeron , Maud Haviernick , Michèle Richard , Annie Turcotte , Maryse Leclair , Anne - Marie Edward , Maryse Laganière and Barbara Marie Klueznick Widajewicz that celles - ci not uncovered never oubliées and that we prendrons them afford nécessaires yeas that the reassess events not apply reproduisent more . 
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs : 
he not is not suffisant of us souvenir of these women . 
we devons also travailler yeas we ensure that series telle tragedy not puisse never apply reproduire . 
they specialist oublié . 
they acclaimed said that what kind of something not pouvait apply produire at the Canada , and pourtant , what kind of something is arrivé at the Canada . 
health life is - she meilleure at the Canada that she never the guardian he rereads has ten years ? 
and mostly , health life is - she meilleure yeas them women , who étaient Act target lors of unabated attack ? 
what that we savons with certainty , what is that the number of women who Cutbacks of them studies of ingénierie has augmenté of way spectaculaire , and what is series something positive . 
we savons that royal police of Montreal has revu ses procedures of intervention and that confirms has amené Act police streets of other city of the country at bye them their . 
the 6 December , the foreign ceremonies acclaimed instead everywhere streets our country , not only at Montreal , but also streets ma city , Winnipeg , analyzed that streets of other cities of the Canada ' s West , the Government East and the Government Atlantic . 
the foreign journées of Action are organisées afin of éliminer Act violence introductory at them women . 
he rereads has series Campagne of the Ruban white , and I am very heureuse of see that the nombreux senators at Act House arborent today today a ruban white . 
everyone confirms is extremely important . 
honourable senators , commentator much of between you the savent , the 2000 last , health " Prairie Action Foundation " has been créée yeas financer the centre " Résoudre " , whose the seat is at the Manitoba . 
voilà a example of them results positifs who devraient découler of series announcement commentator celle - ci . 
the Honourable rald - A . 
honourable senators , we commémorons today today a anniversary tragic and triste . 
fell effect , the 6 December 1989 , a man , Marc Lépine , assassinait 14 women . 
he them has tuées because that thin étaient of them women . 
the École polytechnique , at Montreal , has been the théâtre of what drame épouvantable . 
yesterday , a monument commemorative has been dévoilé at Act memory of them victims . 
unabated tragedy défie the entendement . 
we devons pursue our reflection Act them causes profondes of unabated violence . 
what is why we devons make everything what who is possible yeas try to the prevent , fell commençant by make the Government dépistage auprès of them persons who présentent of them disorders sérieux of behaviour . 
each level of government , composite streets dapper sphère , doit intervene . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , today today Gallery the tenth anniversary of health death of them 14 women assassinées at the École polytechnique of Montreal , the 6 December 1989 . 
i know that I me fais the door - parole of all levels senators when I affirme that we cannot oublions not what drame and that we compatissons with them families and Oceans friends of these women , and with toutes them other persons who acclaimed been marquées by unabated tragedy . 
what triste anniversary doit we give at réfléchir . 
i voudrais you remind them propos referendums by the Honourable Royce Frith le1er February 1990 , and rapportés streets the Hansard of what day - là , when he has attiré the attention of the Senate Act Act violence introductory at them women streets Act society canadienne . 
we continuons at oeuvrer yeas the Elimination of health violence faites at them women . 
i applaudis at them efforts of several groups who acclaimed élevé Act conscience globale and who acclaimed worked yeas obtain the foreign changes . 
i applaudis at them efforts of condolences friends parliamentarians who acclaimed worked fell standpoint of éliminer Act violence introductory at them women by the adoption of health Act Act the control of them weapons at gun , the Elimination of health defence of intoxication volontaire streets the framework of them crimes violent , the renforcement of them provisions of the Code criminal relatives at them Offenders at risk élevé and at well - other égards . 
the senator Frith Partnerships reason for apply ask apply he not apply agissait not to a acte fortuit isolé , but rather of the symptoms of a problem Housing more carking . 
the inauguration of them names des14 women at the dévoilement of the monument of the 6 December 1989 at Montreal yesterday traduit the importance of health issue . 
transport letters gravées streets the acier and health pierre are conçues of telle way that he tangibly make a effort yeas déchiffrer them names . 
what not is not accidentel . 
the monument has been analyzed pensé yeas that foreign names of these women apply inscrivent streets our conscience and that their history not authorized never oubliée . 
bye unabated phase of our history , I you invite , honourable senators , at réfléchir at them events of the 6 December 1989 and at make what that you pouvez yeas that we ayons and , streets Act measure where we cannot the awakened not , that we ourselves efforcions of wheel series society where règnent the respect and the harmonie between them men and Oceans women . 
the Honourable Marisa Ferretti Barth : 
honourable senators , étant of Montreal , you pouvez understand combien the souvenir of bearer événement remplit mon soul of tristesse . 
the 6 December restera gravé streets Act memory of them Canadians puisque what is fell what day that we commémorons together , streets Act more grande tristesse , health death tragic of 14 young women who acclaimed lost Act life at Act subsequently of a acte of violence insensé . 
bye the opportunity to the tenth anniversary of health tragedy of the École polytechnique of Montreal , I you invite non only at condemn Act violence , the where that she vienne , damned that authorized his origin , I you convie also at réfléchir Act them causes of a acte also Tisserant who has activist secoué our society canadienne and québécoise . 
i am persuadée that foreign 14 victims of the École polytechnique , whose we honorons today today Act memory , we inviteraient at mener of them actions more directes who Cutbacks changer the surveillance of them things . 
bye title of example , we devons cesser of us quereller at propos of health Act Act the control of them weapons at gun , car the fusil Mini - 14 utilisé he rereads has 10 years nor is always not interdit by Act bill . 
unabated weapon at gun not arranged can - perhaps not déclarée illégale before the 1er January 2003 . 
we cannot pouvons not ramener at Act life them 14 victims of the École polytechnique . 
health worse inequity , if we there réfléchissons well , is celle ressentie by ceux who faces croient abandonnés by Act society . 
fell memory of toutes them victims of mood criminals , cherchons at find series solution at them causes of health poverty , cherchons at soulager Act douleur and health peine , who are the most often them véritables sources of health violence . 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
honourable senators , he rereads has ten years today today , somewhat after 17 hours , series jeune wife tremblait debout streets the salon of them students to the École polytechnique of Montreal , tenant appeared she the seat of series chaise brisée fell guise of bouclier tandis that retentissaient them coups of fusil more loin streets the corridor . 
by Act subsequently , Ms Rathjen has done something something of remarkable . 
timide and nerveuse appeared series foule , she apply is néanmoins levée few weeks later later appeared the Congress Airports of them students fell génie yeas introduce series petition afin of réclamer series bill interdisant at them civilians of posséder of them weapons of assaut commentator celles who specialist been utilisées against ses amies . 
Seneca what that she has said : 
i ai spoke at them parents of them victims . 
they tiennent at what that person cannot oublie what who is arrivé at their daughters and they veulent désespérément that something something of bon ressorte of everyone confirms - something something which rendrait our society more sûre . 
after wheel obtenu his diploma , she has accepted a employment fell génie at Bell Canada , but she the has quitté six months later later yeas lutter at plein time fell favour of the control of them weapons at gun . 
with Wendy Cukier , she has fondé Act Coalition yeas the control of them weapons at gun and the rest , commentator til said , what is the Government history - history at laquelle has also participated the Senate . 
the nombreux changes acclaimed résulté of the work of Mmes Rathjen and Cukier - well course , series bill Act the control of them weapons at gun . 
today today , Robbie that we rappelons unabated loss of vies tragic at Montreal , he is opportun of tribute tribute at Act survivante who has done series difference . 
health Nova Scotia Nova 
the four - vingt - second anniversary of the outburst of Halifax 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , what is fell effect a day triste yeas the Canada . 
i voudrais make écho at them observations who acclaimed been faites at the topic of health tragedy which apply is produite at Montreal , he rereads has ten years . 
i attire also the attention of the Senate Act series another tragedy very triste who faces is produite at unabated date - ci . 
today today Gallery the four - vingt - second anniversary of the outburst of Halifax . 
even if unabated outburst not semblait not directly perhaps liée at Act War , what is because that til Partnerships need to equipment of war that til has apporté at the Port of Halifax of them products which acclaimed changed tragiquement Act life of a very grandfather number of our fellow , what day - là . 
transport facts entourant the outburst are well connus . 
the ship belge Imo and the ship French Mont Blanc , who transportait of them munitions , are entrés fell collision streets the Port . 
the pont of the Mont Blanc guardian chargé of fûts minces who contenaient of the benzol , series matière extremely inflammable who , when mêlée at the foreign explosifs , form a cocktail terrible . 
the foreign incendies acclaimed éclaté at bord of the Mont Blanc and the crew has abandonné the ship . 
the foreign men of crew of the NCSM Niobe and the Government NSM Highflyer acclaimed unsuccessfully fell vain of maîtriser them incendies . 
vingt and series minutes more later , somewhat after 9 hours of the morning , health cargaison of 2 750 tonnes of explosifs of the Mont Blanc has commitments gun , entraînant Act worse outburst causée by the man streets blunt the history . 
health déflagration has been entendue until streets the Île - du - Prince Edward Édouard , and Oceans ships who étaient fell sea acclaimed senti the movement of them waves . 
health vieille part north of Halifax and the Dartmouth has been détruite by series outburst of series ampleur quasi nucléaire . 
streets them maisons rasées , business cuisinières and Oceans chaudières acclaimed enflammé what that he restait of them structures délabrées , and the foreign incendies teamwork rage streets blunt Act city . 
health ice glaciale who has suivi has been still worse yeas them without - abri and Oceans survivants hébétés . 
based series population urbaine of 50 40,000 persons , more of 1 600 are mortes and 9 40,000 acclaimed been blessées . 
something 13 500 vessels acclaimed been rasés and 6 40,000 persons are demeurées without abri . 
til apply remind still unabated tragedy incredible streets our province . 
series commémoration very appropriée apply is déroulée at the lever of the sun , what morning , at Halifax . 
bye the moment where we ourselves unissons yeas remind at our souvenir them women who acclaimed lost Act life of way if tragic at Montreal , at unabated same date , I request at them honourable senators ' apply remind also Act loss tragic of them men , the foreign women and the foreign children streets the outburst of Halifax . 
statistique Canada 
transport data of census - Ex origin ethnic " canadienne " - Ex effect Act them opportunities for marketing 
the Honourable Lorna Milne : 
honourable senators , based a topic completely différent and much more léger , I ai learned dernièrement of the Opposition and the Day period of them questions at lire them newspapers of the morning much more carefully . 
what that I ai discovered he rereads has series week me inspire series statement rather than series question , and series statement of indignation . 
the afternoon the National Post , a debate is fell surveillance at Statistics Canada Act Act question of savoir apply he tangibly permettre at them répondants at the questionnaire of the census of inscrire Act mention " Quebecer " at Act rubrique of the origin ethnic . 
what privilege we took been accordé rather at against - heart yeas Act first once fell 1991 . 
fell 1996 , the bon sense the Partnerships emporté at Statistics Canada , and " Quebecer " Role Incidence them examples of origin ethnic . 
i guess that much of between us impotent streets the same case that moi and not arresting not define their origines ethniques by a odyssey word . 
commentator Act plupart of them people whose health family is établie at the Canada since most of series generation not arresting revendiquer series simple origin ethnic , I ai need to aid of health share of condolences colleagues senators . 
i refuses to accept the qualificatif " bâtarde " . 
condolences offender of the side paternel are , by Order alphabétique , allemands , English , écossais and irlandais analyzed that series lady always vaguement identifiée who guardian probably métisse . 
the Government another side , ma mother is the souche " purement " britannique . 
no oublions not that he tangibly hear by souche purement britannique a bon mixture of Pictes and the Celtes , 300 years of occupation Roman - what who explique probably Act chevelure noire and the teint olivâtre of ma mother - fault parler of them waves successives of Angles , the Jutes , the Saxons , the Vikings fell maraude and the Normands conquérants . 
two - condolences grandchildren - child acclaimed of them ancêtres européens who are flocked fell America of the North at the beginning of the XVIIe century . 
quinze generations of unabated family are nées and acclaimed grandi Act our continent . 
who therefore impotent we ? 
the Government liver haché ? 
how devons - we ourselves describe we - mêmes ? 
i believe that we analyzed of fiers Canadians to origines mixtes typiquement Forces . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the senator Milne : 
i affirme that I am series Canadienne typique and Statistics Canada should wheel shame of same tangibly at choose them benefits of the marketing at the détriment of health freedom of choice who allows at them Canadians to apply describe commentator they the veulent . 
damned shame ! 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
depository of the report of the committee Act Act part 1 
the Honourable Michael Kirby : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to déposer the second report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology Convey Act Act part 1 to the bill to Bill C - 6 , Act visant at facilitate and at promote the trade électronique fell protégeant them information personnels recueillis , utilisés or releases streets certaines circumstances , fell prévoyant the utilisation of afford électroniques yeas communiquer or enregistrer of the information and the foreign transactions and fell amend Act Act Act Act Evidence at the Canada , health Act Act them textes réglementaires and health Act Act Act révision of them laws . 
depository of the report of the committee Act them parties 2 at 5 
the Honourable Michael Kirby : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to déposer the third report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology Convey Act them parties 2 at 5 of the bill to Bill C - 6 , Act visant at facilitate and at promote the trade électronique fell protégeant them information personnels recueillis , utilisés or releases streets certaines circumstances , fell prévoyant the utilisation of afford électroniques yeas communiquer or enregistrer of the information and the foreign transactions and fell amend Act Act Act Act Evidence at the Canada , health Act Act them textes réglementaires and health Act Act Act révision of them laws . 
transport and Communications 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at permettre Act diffusion of ses deliberations by foreign media of information électroniques 
the Honourable Lise Bacon : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that Tuesday , the 7 December 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them transport and the foreign Communications authorized authorized at permettre Act diffusion of ses deliberations translated by foreign media of information électroniques , the manner at bother the least possible ses travaux . 
notice of Motion autorisant the comitéà retenir of them services 
the Honourable Lise Bacon : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that Tuesday , the 7 December 1999 , I proposerai : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them transport and the foreign Communications authorized habilité at retenir them services of advisors , techniciens , employees of office or other elements nécessaires yeas examiner them bills of Bill , health seams of bills of Bill and Oceans forecasts budgétaires who him acclaimed been déférés . 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee at And the état of the system of health 
the Honourable Michael Kirby : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that , the Tuesday 7 December , I proposerai : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology authorized authorized at examiner yeas fell make report on état of the system of health at the Canada . 
more particularly , that the committee authorized authorized at examiner : 
has ) Changes principles fondamentaux Act lesquels is fondé the system public of health at the Canada ; 
b ) Le historic of the system of health at the Canada ; 
c ) Changes systems of health publics streets of other countries ; 
d ) Le system of health at the Canada - pressure and contraintes ; 
e ) Le role of the government federal streets the system of health at the Canada ; 
that the Comité présente his report final at the most tardle 14 December 2001 ; and 
that the Comité authorized authorized , by derogation at them rules usuelles , at déposer everything report auprès of the Clerk of the Senate if the Senate not seat not at what moment - là ; and that the report authorized réputé wheel been tabled at the Senate . 
transport rights of health human and Oceans conflits multiethniques 
notice of inquiry 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that , the Thursday 9 December , I attirerai the attention of the Senate Act Act question of them rights of health human and the foreign conflits multiethniques . 
transport data of the census 
Presented of petitions 
the Honourable Lorna Milne : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to introduce series petition Convey 139 signatures who acclaimed been recueillies at the surveillance of the summer last by the foreign members of the Yarmouth County Historical Society Museum Mail Archives . 
she said rejecting : 
we , soussignés , tenons at express our inquiétude at the topic of health decision prise by Statistics Canada ' not not confier them data of the census of 1911 and the foreign recensements ultérieurs at them Archives nationales yeas that thin soient mises at Act provision of the public at the bout of 92 years , commentator he and prévu by the article 6 of the rules Act Act protection of them information personnels . 
we souhaitons wheel access at toutes them data of them recensements and power continue to utiliser these précieuses resources yeas And our racines , we renseigner Act our ancêtres and écrire what that we savons of eux streets them stories of family destinées at our children and at our grandchildren - child . 
we estimons that confirms is important yeas our values payroll and that the Heritage Heritage apply fell trouvera enrichi . 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
health defence national 
the Timor oriental - Ex état of them helicopters Sea King 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
the one of eux has owed - well involontairement , I imagine - make a amerrissage forcé and a another has connu of other ennuis . 
the minister may - he we say if these two appareils stealing at nouveau , particularly gerrymandering who has been forcé of amerrir ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I voudrais everything of thanking tribute tribute at Act jurisdiction of them members of the crew of the helicopter . 
they acclaimed owed make opposite at a problem opérationnel , authorized Act manoeuvre the amerrissage at the large of them coasts of the Timor oriental . 
fortunately , they acclaimed succeeded Act manoeuvre fell blunt security . 
after series implementation at the standpoint mécanique of series dizaine of minutes , they acclaimed avoided décoller and apply tribute at bon Port . 
the helicopter Sea King , commentator the Honourable Senator the knows without doubt , has been conçu of way at power , if necessary , run poser also fingertips Act the water that Act earth . 
he is réputé yeas dapper stability lors of what kind of manoeuvre . 
i cannot irais not until at say that bearer amerrissage has been voulu . 
he remembered agissait well évidemment of series reaction at a problem mécanique , but Act situation has been maîtrisée at Act perfection by the crew . 
the apparatus guardian conçu yeas make opposite at what kind of incident , and the everything has been réglé relatively quickly , account tenu of them circumstances . 
the senator Forrestall : 
honourable senators , I cannot voudrais not contester what that says the minister , car confirms could perhaps embarrassant . 
the Sea King not is not destiné at fonctionner Act the water . 
he flotte , but everything at the most . 
i cannot posais not necessarily of question Act his état of functioning . 
these appareils not voleraient not apply they not étaient not fell état of fonctionner and apply they not étaient not pilotés by the foreign people very competent and very conscientious . 
perhaps - perhaps not ai - I not been enough clear fell posant ma question . 
the minister may - he me tell whether what Sea King - là is fell état of fonctionner . 
if what is the case , paving he power pursue dapper mission ? 
the second Sea King has he connu of them problems opérationnels or the Availability durant his séjour at the Timor oriental ? 
fell particular , the apparatus who has effectué a amerrissage forcé rereads he steal of nouveau ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , according them informations that I ai , when the helicopter has amerri , the foreign steamship acclaimed immediately been envoyés of the NCSM Protecteur . 
the crew of the apparatus has fell fact redémarré the drives after approximately 10 minutes , the helicopter has décollé and apply is ensuite posé at the airport of Dili . 
series team of techniciens has ensuite been envoyée at the airport yeas , according them informations that I ai , determine , the case échéant , the étendue of them dommages or health necessity of procéder at the foreign réparations . 
commentator what is the case streets what kind of incident of flight , series inquiry Act Act security of them vols has been congruent . 
yeas the moment , I cannot am not fell measure of give at the senator them results of unabated inquiry anguishes of him say if she is always fell surveillance . 
health justice 
health possibility of modify the Code criminal relatively at the harassment criminal - Ex influence of the bill to Bill S - 6 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I believe understand that series colleague the Government Leader of the government , at savoir Mrs. Act Minister of health Howe , has manifesté publicly his intention of see at what that the foreign changes soient Location at the Code criminal relatively at the harassment criminal . 
the what side - ci of the Senate , we analyzed curieux of savoir quelles are Act policy and the intent of the government at bearer regard . 
more specifically , the Leader can - he confirm that royal Minister of health Howe incorporera streets the bill to Bill ministériel them provisions of the bill to Bill S - 6 , a bill to Bill auquel apply intéresse much , notamment , the senator Oliver ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I cannot ai not to details precise yeas the instant . 
i am persuadé that Mrs. Act Minister of health Howe is at the fact of the bill to Bill of the senator Oliver . 
understandings at Act nature exacte of the bill to Bill that she présentera at the Parliament , I préférerais wait until at what moment - là . 
i pourrai can - perhaps fournir Robbie more of details . 
transport transport 
health regulators of a éventuel monopoly streets the sector of the transportation aérien of travellers - Possibility policy self 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
honourable senators , ma question at the Leader of the government at the Senate pertains Act policy self at the hook of the monopoly who threat of apply installer streets the sector Heritage of the transportation aérien of travellers . 
the minister of them Transport seems say that he hope and account that series or several other companies sauront fell time opportun apply join at the sector and create the Day competition . 
between - time , he torn at réglementer more strictly the sector and laisse hear that the government fingertips always the power to agir fell case of price abusifs . 
what that I veux savoir , at the fond , what is where fell is Act policy self . 
what not is surely not the last word . 
i cannot aime not more than quiconque Act regulatory , but we serons streets series situation where he rereads fingertips virtually a monopoly streets what sector yeas series period indéfinie . 
fell consequential , he paving falloir réglementer of nouveau the sector . 
the congruent not can not perhaps autorisée at withdraw the foreign services , at his gré , anguishes at fixer ses price commentator she the entend . 
who said monopoly said nouvelle regulatory . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate may - he we give the EI that royal question of savoir apply he tangibly reréglementer the nouveau monopoly not has not been factual and that the government prendra unabated responsibility at the sérieux and that he not fera not Evidence of complaisance fell adoptant series policy low commentator celle queM. Collenette has Proposed at the surveillance of the interview that he has donnée recently at them media ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
i estimated , honourable senators , that the commitment to the government relatively at them questions soulevées by the senator has been exprimé clearly by the minister and répété by moi streets unabated enceinte . 
nothing not has yet been decided . 
commentator the senator ' knows , streets few days , business shareholders of the one of them carriers aériens passeront at the vote Act the offers who their has been soumise . 
i torn therefore at me prononcer yeas the moment , car confirms could perhaps considéré commentator series statement influant Act unabated decision . 
however , I puis say that the minister has énoncé very clearly them five objectives of health policy of the government , at savoir Act protection of them consumers against foreign price exorbitants , the maintien of them services at them small towns , health protection of them rights and the foreign concerns of them employees , the maintien of health competition and , évidemment , the control Heritage effectif . 
the government and the minister of them Transport are déterminés at appliquer these principles . 
yeas the hour , he remains the foreign points at régler streets the sector private , but these principles not changeront not . 
they resteront Act clé of voûte of health policy self streets what sector . 
the senator Murray : 
i thank the Leader of the government yeas dapper response and his rappel of them conditions énoncées by Hon. colleague , Rand Collenette . 
i believe that foreign people of Air Canada acclaimed commitments knowledge of series ébauche of Report - after series fuite and perhaps - perhaps apply notional - he ' a report informel - Request a committee of health House of them Commons who formula certaines recommendations understandings at the regime that the government should allegiances fell place . 
the chairman of Air Canada says at the government and at the Parliament what that he is loan at accept . 
i am frappé by the contraste between the attitude intransigeante of Air Canada , who we said what that she acceptera and what that she never acceptera not , and the attitude rather docile and passive of the minister of them Transport . 
whereupon that he fell authorized , we verrons fell time and instead . 
the senator Boudreau : 
when the snakes has asked at the minister quelles measures the government prendrait yeas ensure the respect to them objectives of health policy and who ferait adhere unabated policy , he has answered expressément that foreign parliamentarians , the Bureau of health competition , the Office of them transport of the Canada , the minister of them Transport analyzed that the gouverneur fell council joueraient a role . 
bye unabated phase - ci , the committee of the Senate and gerrymandering of health House of them Commons acclaimed all sides examiné Act question . 
i am convaincu that they acclaimed fact a excellent work and that the minister tiendra seriously account the their constatations . 
he not done nil doubt that the chairman of Air Canada voudra express ses opinions and I am convaincu that the minister fell tiendra account also . 
however , business decisions finales and health structure finale uncovered function of them principles that I ai énumérés at the intent of them honourable senators . 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , the Leader of the government at the Senate is - he fell train of say that he is possible that the government entende revert at series industry aérienne réglementée at the Canada ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , yeas the instant , the process suit his surveillance . 
the sector private doit prendre of them decisions very graves , and I think that we devrions wait that these decisions soient prises . 
thin the losers Subcommittee little , and we cannot devrions not intervene or tenter of influer of something way that what authorized Act them decisions that prendront of them particuliers exerçant their rights at title of shareholders . 
i am very prudent at what topic . 
however , yeas the instant , the government has exposé them principles généraux Act lesquels apply appuiera blunt policy which arranged élaborée . 
bye mon notice , what is at the minister of them Transport that he appartiendra , at series date ultérieure , the determine exactly how these principles uncovered overburdened fell application . 
the v. of them operations of health company aérienne InterCanadien - Ex service at them small communities 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , the minister continues to repeat them five principles énoncés by Hon. colleague , the minister of them Transport , the one of eux étant the service at them small communities . 
the v. of them operations of InterCanadien has strokes of them repercussions Act to small communities of health region of where the Honourable Senator is Pierrefonds . 
the minister may - he say at the Senate combien of aéroports of the Canada Atlantic autrefois desservis sideshow by InterCanadien not are more desservis now ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I thank the senator ' dapper question . 
i ai consulted quickly condolences notes , but if I me souviens well , he is question of three aéroports . 
the senator Kinsella : 
the Leader can - he them appoint ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
he rereads fell has two at the Brunswick - Brunswick , that the Honourable Senator connaît surely very well , and a at Newfoundland - Newfoundland . 
the senator Kinsella : 
our colleague , the Honourable Senator Cochrane , has underlined the another day that the airport of Stephenville and two aéroports of the north - is the Government Brunswick - Brunswick étaient of the number . 
health population of Stephenville and the Government north - is the Government Brunswick - Brunswick not account she not streets the spirit of the government ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
i believe understand that at the hour actuelle toutes them towns of the Canada Atlantic , at the exception of these three towns , are desservies by a another transporteur . 
these three towns , authorized Stephenville , at Newfoundland - Newfoundland , and Charlo and Chatham , at the Brunswick - Brunswick , are desservies by Air Nova at partir of Bathurst . 
understandings at Stephenville , ses residents emigrate temporairement apply tribute at the centre of Deer Lake , situé at approximately 113 kilometres of their localité . 
yet là , what not is not the ideal , but espérons that what arranged temporaire . 
i dois consigned that the service of transportation aérien at Stephenville posait of them problems before same levels events récents . 
the senator Forrestall : 
that say to Sydney ? 
health regulators of a éventuel monopoly streets the sector of the transportation aérien of them travellers - Possibility policy self 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
honourable senators , I ai series dernière question supplementary that I voudrais poser streets the but the make the standpoint and health light Act unabated question . 
the minister may - he garantir at the Senate that the government not tolérera not a monopoly non réglementé streets the sector of the transportation aérien of them travellers ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
i puis say at them honourable senators that the government protégera them interests that has clearly énumérés the minister of them Transport streets dapper policy . 
the trade international 
the failure to them discussions at the Organization World of the trade - Comments grants agricultural of them States members - Ex assistance at them farmers Airports . 
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk : 
honourable senators , étant rose that foreign negotiations on the OMC acclaimed échoué fell end of week and that , the blunt évidence , health issue of the Agriculture preoccupation grandement some senators , I remind that the minister of the Agriculture , the Leader of the government at the Senate , the other ministers and the Prime Minister acclaimed all déclaré that , yeas help them farmers Airports , he fallait absolument éliminer them grants excessives that versent them Americans and mostly them Europeans at their farmers . 
he seems now that bearer objective not arranged not atteint before long . 
damned is Act Position of rechange of the government yeas help them farmers and how paving he contrer them grants excessives who existent streets them systems européens and trillion ? 
he semblerait that he not ait currently not to strategy yeas venir fell assistance at them farmers to the West . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , he is clear yeas everything the world that foreign results obtenus at Seattle fell what who pertains Act question of them grants not are not satisfaisants and that the file not has not progressé commentator we the avions espéré . 
however , he serait faux of conclude that foreign discussions acclaimed commitments end . 
transport discussions fell standpoint of éliminer or the contrer them grants accordées by foreign States - U.S. and the Union European apply poursuivent Subcommittee them auspices of the OMC . 
we espérons that the file paving progresser and , fell fact , he remains series priority primordiale yeas the minister and yeas the government . 
the senator Andreychuck : 
honourable senators , I conçois that foreign negotiations soient series priority . 
thin the are since 1947 . 
what that I trouve difficult at accept , what is that til apply attendait at what that thin produisent a outcome who we aurait licences of see Act light at the bout of the tunnel , and what , yeas Act first once depuis5 or 10 years . 
what not is clearly not the case . 
even if them negotiations apply poursuivent , series solution satisfactorily not viendra not before a bout of time . 
that fera the government yeas help them farmers to health Saskatchewan at Act light of the fact that foreign negotiations on the OMC acclaimed manifestement been remises at more later ? 
the government réexaminera he them programs of assistance and the soutien at them farmers to the West today today ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I répète that these discussions apply poursuivront Subcommittee them auspices of the OMC . 
the minister and our government continueront of there accorder Act priority that thin deserve . 
i dirai also at the senator that , at the surveillance of discussions that we awakened eues , the minister me has said that foreign negotiations Act the renewal of them programs conjoints fédéraux - provinciaux of security of the Income apply poursuivront and , espérons - Government , the genus way which aidera them farmers Airports . 
the senator Andreychuk : 
honourable senators , is - what that til abordera certaines questions fell dangling fell what who has trait at the transportation ? 
is - what that til examinera Act question of them fees of transportation yeas them farmers to the west of the Canada ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
bye what stadium - ci , I cannot dispel not duplicates Act seams of them discussions fell surveillance between them governments federal and provinciaux . 
i pourrais can - perhaps obtain these information and , if possible , business partager with the senator . 
the senator Andreychuk : 
i query wheel these information not wrote , car I believe understand that he rereads has strokes of them discussions with them companies ferroviaires yeas limiting them profits , if I dispel employer what term , or the surplus that thin tirent of the transportation of the Wheat and the foreign other products agricultural . 
i voudrais series response écrite Act blunt Act policy of them transport at the Canada . 
the senator Boudreau : 
i me commits at fournir Act response écrite Act more detailed possible . 
answer différée at series question orale 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I ai Act response différée at series question that the Honourable Senator Spivak has posée the 17 November 1999 at the Senate at the topic of health regulators of them products of équarrissage . 
health health 
health regulators of them products of équarrissage - Possibility policy of the government 
( response at Act question posée by the Honourable Mira Spivak : 17 November 1999 ) 
the government federal possède them powers requis yeas réglementer Act composition of them products équarris and the industry to the équarrissage . 
fell fact , toutes them Contents grasses and all levels tourteaux of protéines destinés at perhaps utilisés streets of them foods of them animals are réglementés Subcommittee on regime of health Act relative at them foods of the cattle . 
transport products équarris repositories perhaps conformes at them standards établies streets the rules Act them foods of the cattle and not arresting contenir of contaminants who petitioners organisms at them animals or menaceraient Act salubrité of them foods . 
transport établissements of équarrissage Cutbacks the objet of series inspection Annual who allows the Auditing apply they tiennent them registres exigés , appliquent them measures to control requises yeas avoid Act contamination croisée and étiquettent correctement their products . 
the foreign parties to animals domestiques abattus are since the nombreuses years transformées yeas perhaps ajoutées at the foreign foods of the cattle commentator sources of protéines of upper quality . 
fell April 1996 , the Organization World of health health has recommended that all levels country interdisent that the Day viande and the Day farine of os of ruminants soient data at manger at the foreign ruminants . 
rejecting comprend them bovins , business moutons and Oceans chèvres , by example . 
these measures apply inscrivaient streets the framework of them efforts visant at éliminer all levels factors of risks connus associés at Act transmission of the encéphalopathie spongiforme of them bovins ( ESB ) or " illness of health cow folle " . 
fell 1996 , the Canada has mené of vastes consultations of them industries touchées who acclaimed rose instead at the Imposition of the prohibition relative at them foods of the cattle fell August 1997 . 
since Act prise of effect of the prohibition , business farmers not arresting more utiliser of " Contents interdites " commentator ingrédients streets them foods of them ruminants . 
however , business farmers arresting still utiliser these Contents streets them foods of them animals non ruminants commentator Act volaille and the porc . 
if the Canada has decided to exempter the porc and health volaille of the prohibition of give the foreign protéines mammaliennes at manger at the foreign ruminants , what is that aucune encéphalopathie spongiforme transmissible ( RESOLVED ) the origin naturelle not has been signalée chez the porc anguishes Act volaille . 
fell outre , the utilisation continues to these products streets them foods of them porcs and the Day volaille élimine the need to them incinérer or the foreign enfouir . 
yeas ensure Act regulatory adéquate of them products of équarrissage , the ACIA has sparked a review of health policy at bearer regard . 
transport travaux of the Senate 
Points at the rules - Points of health Ruling 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , before that we cannot passions at the Order of the day , I am loan at me prononcer Act Act question who has been soulevée by the senator Corbin at the topic of the Employment , by the Honourable Senator Cools , the Government term English " minion " . 
i thank the Honourable Senator Corbin of wheel soulevé Act question at the Senate , car Act question of them observations who are faites at the Senate or at the another place at the topic the one of the another and still at the topic of the Governor General is importante . 
transport senators repositories always apply garder of employer a langage who could perhaps blessant yeas of them persons who occupent of them positions prestigieux . 
however , I ai read carefully them propos of the senator Corbin Act Act question . 
he has quoted Act 9e edition of the Concise Oxford Dictionary yeas specifying Act signification of the term . 
he remembered notional of thanking of a objet aimé and cher , the one plucked , the one amoureux or the genus amoureuse , the genus maîtresse or the one amant , mostly when they are particularly estimés or that they are préférés , series idole favorite , or the plucked of a souverain . 
however , til said also " or défenseur servile " . 
health plupart of them définitions are flatteuses . 
i dois therefore tribute commentator decision that the term " minion " no is not offensant streets dapper signification générale . 
he tangibly however , I the répète , make Evidence of the most grandfather discernement yeas avoid all levels termes offensants at the place to other persons or the institutions importantes at the Canada . 
orders OF THE 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
second reading 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Kirby , seconded by the Honourable Senator Lewis , Refer at Act second reading of the bill to Bill C - 6 , Act visant at facilitate and at promote the trade électronique fell protégeant them information personnels recueillis , utilisés or releases streets certaines circumstances , fell prévoyant the utilisation of afford électroniques yeas communiquer or enregistrer of the information and the foreign transactions and fell amend Act Act Act Act Evidence at the Canada , health Act Act them textes réglementaires and health Act Act Act révision of them laws . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I informe the Senate that , if the Honourable Senator Kirby prend Act parole now , his intervention fingertips yeas effect of clore the debate on second reading . 
the Honourable Michael Kirby : 
honourable senators , condolences commentaires today today uncovered very brefs yeas Act simple reason that I ai tabled more earlier today today two reports of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology fell report with the bill to Bill C - 6 . 
commentator them honourable senators apply fell souviendront , he rereads has two weeks , unabated House Partnerships decided to suspend the debate on second reading during that the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology procédait at the study of the objet of the bill to Bill C - 6 , what that we aurions appelé autrefois " study préalable " . 
transport results of them hearings and the foreign deliberations of the committee Act unabated question apply trouvent streets them two reports who acclaimed been déposés streets unabated House he rereads approximately series hour . 
i ferai simply observer that the one of these reports recommends the foreign amendments at the bill to Bill C - 6 , amendments which acclaimed been adoptés at the unanimously by the committee more earlier today today . 
these amendments reçoivent the appui of all levels members of the committee . 
by conséquent , I hope that , if them senators mettent end at the debate on second reading of the bill to Bill today today and renvoient the bill to Bill at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology , gerrymandering - ci rereads apply Camera tomorrow morning yeas examiner the report . 
i account Robbie , with Act leave of the Séant , amorcer the debate Act them amendments . 
honourable senators , at the instead of examiner them two reports that I ai déposés today today , whose I proposerai of examiner the objet blocks that the Senate arranged solemn saisi of the report tomorrow , I voudrais , after these few observations Act the déroulement of them travaux at venir , clore the debate on second reading . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
plaît - he at them senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée and the bill to Bill is read series second once . ) 
referred at the committee 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series third once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Kirby , the bill to Bill is renvoyé at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology . ) 
motion Convey directive at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology of scinder the bill to Bill fell two - Adjourned of the debate 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
honourable senators , I ose espérer that you conviendrez that , according them precedents and Oceans ouvrages who Cutbacks autorité , the moment indiqué yeas give series directive at the committee , what is immediately after the referred to the bill to Bill fell committee . 
bye bearer regard , I voudrais attirer the attention of health Ruling Act Act motion No. 22 inscrite , at mon name since the 24 November and who move the give series directive at the committee sénatorial Standing . 
i think that he serait approprié of us fell saisir now and , the case échéant , I voudrais prendre Act parole . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , he appartient at the Senate to fell decide . 
health sixth edition of the Beauchesne is very precise at what topic , notamment Act Seneca 684 , whose Seneca the text : 
the instruction can perhaps Proposed authorized immediately after the referred to the bill to Bill fell committee , authorized ultérieurement Subcommittee form of Motion distincte . 
what could therefore perhaps fact everything of subsequently , if the Senate is the agreement , or ultérieurement . 
plaît - he at them senators ' appeler now Act motion inscrite at the name of the senator Murray ? 
the Honourable Michael Kirby : 
honourable senators , I am everything at fact of agreement yeas that we abordions Act question that the senator Murray souhaite raise . 
confirms apply sciences streets the right incorrigible of them reports déposés today today and , fell the autorisant at apply express now , we permettrons at the committee of make a job more exhaustif tomorrow . 
i hope that he arranged rose subsequently at Act requête of the senator . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
plaît - he at them senators that we procédions of health sorte ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Murray : 
honourable senators , pursuant at the notice of the 24 November 1999 , I move : 
that he authorized rose at the Comité sénatorial Standing auquel arranged renvoyé the bill to Bill C - 6 the instruction suivante : 
that he has the power to scinder the bill to Bill C - 6 , Act visant at facilitate and at promote the trade électronique fell protégeant them information personnels recueillis , utilisés or releases streets certaines circumstances , fell prévoyant the utilisation of afford électroniques yeas communiquer or enregistrer of the information and the foreign transactions and fell amend Act Act Act Act Evidence at the Canada , health Act Act them textes réglementaires and health Act Act Act révision of them laws , fell two bills of Bill , the Prime étant constitué of health part 1 and the Government Printed 1 with the foreign 209 and series clause of entrée fell vigueur and the second étant constitué of the rest of the bill to Bill and the foreign annexes 2 and 3 with the foreign 209 ; that foreign deliberations Act the second bill to Bill arresting perhaps delayed until after the study of the Prime ; that the one or the another of them bills of Bill can make the objet of a report at the Senate aussitôt after wheel been examined ; and that , indépendamment of them usages habituels , the Senate gives unabated instruction not regardless when after wheel been saisi of the bill to Bill , even after that the committee fingertips began the study . 
honourable senators , he rereads has few days , tandis that we discutions fell unabated enceinte of the Evolution of the bill to Bill C - 6 at the Senate , I ai commitments some commitments at the name of health loyale Opposition of Majesty Majesty . 
i the ai fact with the approval of the leadership of what side - ci . 
transport commitments étaient essentially that , run he rereads Partnerships series provision of the committee yeas amender what Bill of Bill afin of prendre fell considération them concerns exprimées , notamment streets the sector of them care of health , we , the our side , ferions everything what that we pourrions , streets Act measure of the reasonable , yeas make adopt streets them more brefs délais a bill to Bill amendé afin that he puisse perhaps examiné by foreign Members before that they not ajournent Act House of them Commons yeas the congé of Christmas . 
i interviens now yeas confirm bearer commitment . 
however , bearer commitment constitue a problem yeas Act motion . 
if I soumettais unabated motion at a debate and at a vote éventuel , confirms could wheel yeas effect of retarder the adoption of a bill to Bill amendé fell unabated enceinte and the nuire at the commitment that I ai commitments more earlier . 
i query therefore simply say that I cannot ai not the intent of procéder analyzed . 
i vais now make few remarques Act Act question and laisser hear that , when I aurai terminé , a friend voudra can - perhaps simply ajourner the debate . 
what is series question importante that I ai soulevée . 
what Bill of Bill combine fell fact two bills of Bill distincts . 
i avais something share , and I them ai can - perhaps always if I dispel them retrouver , the foreign citations of the minister of health Howe and the officials of the Department of the Industry who confirment that he rereads Partnerships at the departure two bills of Bill who acclaimed been combinés fell a odyssey . 
i avais the intent of make inscrire these citations at the comte rendu . 
unfortunately , honourable senators , you devrez me croire Act parole , because that Incidence all levels papiers that I ai fell main , I cannot trouve not them statements faites by Ms McLellan and by foreign officials of the Department of the Industry appeared the committee of health House of them Commons lors of his review of the bill to Bill C - 54 . 
Ms McLellan has affirmé very clearly that , without vouloir divulguer of them secrets of the cabinet , Rand Manley and she specialist solemn voulu of thanking introduce two bills of Bill différents , but that fell reason for the calendar Parliamentary , they specialist decided to them combiner fell a odyssey . 
series lady of the name of Stéphanie Perrin , the Government Department of the Industry , who has comparu appeared the committee of health House of them Commons , analyzed that appeared gerrymandering of the Senate he rereads has little of time , the has confirmed without the ombre of a doubt . 
when business officials of the Department of the Industry acclaimed témoigné appeared the committee sénatorial , I their ai posé Act question , but I cannot ai not obtenu of reply claire . 
they voulaient well course protect their arrières . 
they acclaimed underlined that the bill to Bill faisait part intégrale of the framework législatif gouvernemental touchant the trade électronique . 
they acclaimed esquivé the fact that foreign provisions of the bill to Bill Act Act life privacy submariners au - delà of the trade électronique . 
thin apply appliquent at them information personnels recueillis streets the framework of activity commerciales , that what authorized by voie électronique or another . 
the fact is that royal part 1 constitue a bill to Bill fell se . 
honourable senators , I ai strokes few reserves at the topic of ma motion when a certain Ian Lawson has comparu appeared the committee . 
what is a lawyer of Vancouver and a spécialiste recognized the foreign questions regarding Casual information personnels . 
Koppel . Lawson has avancé the argument that , constitutionnellement , health part 1 to the bill to Bill depends of health part 2 . Je not you dérangerai not with unabated Seneca , the blunt way I cannot think not the wheel here . 
i you asking series once the most of me croire Act parole . 
commentator you the savez , Rand Tassé , who is a former Subcommittee - Minister of health Howe , is also a constitutionnaliste . 
he not is not exagéré of say that the argument deM. Lawson has been réfuté parM. Tassé . 
he we took explained to fashion détaillé and savante , commentator at his habitude , why the whole of the bill to Bill and toutes ses provisions représentent a fiscal légitime and approprié of the power to the government federal fell matière of Commerce . 
i reviens at what that I disais lors of health second reading . 
he remembered notional fell fact of two bills of Bill and non - a odyssey . 
til not can not make entrer what Bill of Bill streets Act category of them bills of Bill omnibus because that he contains certainly more of a principle . 
we aurions Robbie a debate fell second reading , series study fell committee , a debate fell third reading and we pourrions all rentrer composite chez we . 
i admets that what is series démonstration by the absurd , but I hope that she you allows the understanding the risk that pose series telle practice . 
otherwise said , til paving at the encontre of them rights of the Parliament fell him soumettant a bill to Bill contenant a principle clearly énoncé of telle sorte that foreign parliamentarians puissent discuss the ses provisions at Act light of what principle . 
the one standpoint of standpoint practice , at the phase of health second reading , I ai exprimé Act crainte that , streets the présent debate , we accordions much of attention at Act part 1 , based Act protection of health life privacy , that we jugeons more controversée , and not suffisamment at them parties Act the trade électronique , based Act ability to them citizens of communiquer with them agences of the government federal by the foreign afford électroniques and based them effects of health Act Act Act Evidence at the Canada Act the utilisation of them Communications électroniques by the system judicial . 
what are là of them questions extremely sérieuses , but the committee of health House of them Commons not them has virtually not étudiées , not more than our own committee . 
honourable senators , he suffit of lire the third report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology , tabled more earlier today today , yeas see what who faces is past . 
the report says ensuite : " Le committee not has not received suffisamment of testimony Act them parties 2 at 5 of the bill to Bill yeas make the foreign observations at propos of them provisions that thin renferment " . 
the committee said néanmoins that he semblerait ceased a appui enough large at the hook of these parties to the bill to Bill No. 
eh well , honourable senators , if , streets few months or few years , he appert that foreign provisions of them parties 2à 5 présentaient of them problems that person cannot has repérés or prévus , Robbie them members of the government and the Government Parliament auront the air of parfaits imbéciles when business people examineront , fell rétrospective , the cheminement of what Bill of Bill at the cabinet and durant everything the process législatif . 
honourable senators , even if I laisse tomber ma motion yeas them reasons that I ai énoncées , I tiens at what that condolences colleagues admits at breaching standpoint them senators ' what side - ci prennent Act question at the sérieux . 
we croyons that he tangibly make everything fell our power yeas contester the government when he présente a bill to Bill who is fell fact two bills of Bill , commentator what is the case here , simply yeas accommoder ceux who dirigent them travaux at the another place . 
what are them Members of the Opposition of the another place who auraient owed protester with vigueur if confirms Partnerships escaped at the attention of their colleagues . 
but confirms , what is series another story which souligne still series once the importance of the Senate commentator House of second review of them decisions of the power executive . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Kirby , the debate is adjourned . ) 
health Act Act the casier judicial 
bill to Bill Amend - Rapport of the committee - Adjourned of the debate 
the Senate proceeded at the study of the second report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional ( Bill of Bill C - 7 , Act amend Act Act Act the casier judicial and series another act fell consequential , with proposals for amendment ) , presented at the Senate Committee 30 November 1999 . 
the Honourable Lorna Milne : 
honourable senators , fell activist that patron of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional , I ai the honour to aborder the report Act the bill to Bill C - 7 , Act amend Act Act Act the casier judicial and series another act fell consequential . 
the bill to Bill move a certain number of changes at Act procedure of réhabilitation prévue streets Act Act Act the casier judicial . 
he introduces notamment series exception at Act rule générale of non - divulgation of them dossiers of them persons who acclaimed obtenu series réhabilitation at the hook of series offence prévue at them regulations afin of permettre their communication streets the framework of the examination of them candidatures at a employment who mettrait these individuals fell situation of trust or the autorité by report at the foreign children or at the foreign persons vulnerable . 
the bill to Bill is renvoyé with the foreign proposals for amendment . 
before the explain these proposals for amendment , however , I tiens at you fournir a certain historic of them facts . 
fell June last , the Solicitor General has comparu appeared the committee yeas make Act promotion of the bill to Bill Robbie appelé C - 69 . 
everyone at the term of unabated postponement and the celles who acclaimed suivi , he is became clear yeas your committee that the bill to Bill tel that formulé comportait several gaps . 
bye the name of the committee , I ai wrote at the Solicitor General yeas him make share of our concerns , at savoir , notamment , that we étions troublés of see that he not there Partnerships nil referred exprès at the fact that the bill to Bill VI them dossiers of them délinquants sexuels réhabilités . 
confirms we inquiétait , fell outre , that some elements substantiels of the bill to Bill soient placés streets the regulation accompagnant the bill to Bill No. 
during our deliberations , we awakened also discussed acrimonieusement of them elements of political who Subcommittee - tendent the bill to Bill and we ourselves impotent asked if we apporterions a change fondamental at the system of réhabilitation , aspect who Partnerships been defended by several of our prédécesseurs at Act House . 
i ai also soulevé unabated question streets Act letter that I ai adressée at the Solicitor General . 
i cannot torn never at attribuer the deserves the genus something at Act human at laquelle he revient and I dois you consigned , honourable senators , that the work of the committee has been grandement facilité by Act collaboration of the Solicitor General . 
nay only has he replied quickly at our letter , but him ? same and ses officials acclaimed tenu account the toutes our concerns and acclaimed rédigé of them suggestions of amendments Act - Government - champ . 
commentator we cannot avions not the time to apporter these changes at the opportunity to health session précédente , the foreign officials of the office of the Solicitor General acclaimed comparu appeared our committee Act week dernière afin of discuss the nouveau of the bill to Bill and the introduce at the committee of them proposals for amendments at the bill to Bill who répondent at ses concerns . 
bye the name of the committee , I thank the Solicitor General and ses officials of the attention that they acclaimed granted at our concerns and the Government assistance that they acclaimed apportée fell proposant of them improvements at the bill to Bill No. 
the report regarding the bill to Bill comprend them summarizing amendments suivants . 
premièrement , business définitions of them termes " children " and " persons vulnerable " passent of the regulation at the corps of the text of the bill to Bill No. 
the committee has noté that the term " handicap " no is more acceptable streets Act society of today today . 
he not between more streets Act practice of utiliser what term streets series measure legislative . 
deuxièmement , the word " sexuel " has been added at the article 6 of the bill to Bill afin that he authorized well clear that only them offences sexuelles petitioners signalées fell vertu of the system proposed . 
troisièmement , the Printed of them offences sexuelles has been withdrawn the Government regulation and insérée streets the bill to Bill proprement said . 
honourable senators , what not is certainly not Act first , anguishes Act dernière once , that we apportons of them improvements at series measure legislative venant of the another place . 
transport changes that your committee has apportés at the bill to Bill C - 7 acclaimed licences of aboutir at series exception claire , canvas and limitée at Act Act Act the casier judicial . 
these changes acclaimed maintenu the balance between them objectives of the system of réhabilitation and the need to protect them children and the other groups vulnerable streets Act society . 
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk : 
honourable senators , I supports certainly them observations of the senator Milne . 
i brevity them members of the committee of the excellent work that they acclaimed fact streets their review of the bill to Bill No. 
i supports them amendments . 
i tiens however at consigned two subjects of inquiétude . 
transport changes that the snakes move the apporter at Act Act Act the casier judicial fell what who pertains Act réhabilitation représentent Act first intrusion importante Act a standpoint where the public comprenait clearly that royal réhabilitation , series once granted , interdisait blunt utilisation ultérieure of the former casier judicial of series human against she . 
i me remind that , when I étais jeune avocate , he has fallu a certain time yeas that the public parvienne at understand fell whereupon consistait really Act réhabilitation . 
i dois however express certaines composition regarding the integrity of the process of réhabilitation . 
everyone at the term of the audience , the minister and Oceans officials apply are dits very conscients that unabated measure constituerait series intrusion streets the system of réhabilitation and that she risquait can - perhaps the diminuer or the miner everything the process of réhabilitation . 
they acclaimed however affirmé that the service of police who serait fell charge of the system utiliserait of them mechanisms of control efficaces . 
well that I aie the most grandfather respect yeas them services of police at the Canada , he incombe at the government ' ensure a review systématique and effective of them process of control of health police . 
recently , by report at Act Act électorale , til we took garanti that royal protection of them information personnels serait maintenue . 
pourtant , by inadvertance , all levels dossiers of them conducteurs of the Manitoba acclaimed been égarés . 
he serait unacceptable that the system of réhabilitation not conserve not his integrity . 
he serait inconcevable of not not make a review approfondi and the no not maintain the system of indicators . 
til not doit utiliser gerrymandering - ci that yeas Auditing them casiers judiciaires of persons impliquées streets of them offences of Nature sexual . 
what who me inquiète , what is that foreign systems apply détériorent with the time . 
when they uncovered at court of resources , business responsables of what system prendront can - perhaps the foreign raccourcis susceptibles of fell menacer the integrity . 
series once that til fingertips prévu what kind of entorses at them rules regarding health réhabilitation , fingertips til trend at prévoir of other exceptions at the other purposes ? 
the objective visé fell the occurrence is fort commendable , but he should apply agir of a case exceptionnel , and nil another bill to Bill similar not should perhaps presented . 
Ms Patty Bowen , directrice administrative of the body Bénévoles Canada , has témoigné appeared the committee of them Affairs legal lors of health dernière session . 
she has déclaré that what who guardian the most important , what guardian that , the Government Notices of Bénévoles Canada and at Act light of recherches effectuées , the examination of candidatures guardian différent of series vérification of casier judicial . 
according she , health vérification of them casiers judiciaires has series utilité limitée , car Act majority of them individus who submariners infliger of mauvais traitements at a child or at series another person cannot acclaimed never been reconnus guilty of a crime . 
they not figurent therefore not streets the system of casiers judiciaires . 
these dernières years , we awakened strokes trend at adopt the foreign bills of Bill who Cutbacks croire faussement at Act population that the evil against lequel we essayons of lutter has diminué . 
transport representatives of Bénévoles Canada and the nombreux other witnesses who acclaimed comparu appeared the committee acclaimed said that the problem complements of health selection of them candidates , not to them checks of casiers judiciaires . 
rare are them individus who infligent of mauvais traitements at the foreign children or who are at Act research of a employment where they auront the opportunity to infliger of mauvais traitements at the foreign children and who possèdent already a casier judicial . 
they acclaimed acted of way détournée and acclaimed , until at now , escaped at the system of justice pénale . 
streets pareils case , series vérification of the casier judicial not is guère useful . 
i account Act the fact that the government , fell soulignant what Bill of Bill , veillera at what that he protège them children . 
i tiens at tribute tribute at Bénévoles Canada yeas his process of selection , analyzed that has the other groups commentator Scouts Canada , who lobbyist with the foreign young and apply is doté of a process of selection useful . 
transport children uncovered protected streets Act measure where them process of selection uncovered suivis . 
these two observations étant faites , I supports the bill to Bill analyzed amended . 
however , I déconseille at the government ' intervene streets the process of réhabilitation . 
i observance also at the government that what Bill of Bill not empêchera surely not them children of Welfare molestés by ceux who cherchent a employment where the foreign children palatable perhaps vulnerable . 
i estimated that the government and Oceans Canadians acclaimed Act responsibility to perhaps always Act the who - vive fell what who pertains them children and that what Bill of Bill not is that a tool Incidence activist of other at their provision . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Nolin , the debate is adjourned . ) 
the Union Monetary European 
the report of the committee of them Affairs Foreign Act the study - Stands of the debate 
the Honourable Peter A . Stollery : 
honourable senators , I voudrais that the study of the fourth report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign authorized inscrite at mon name . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
you plaît - he that the article authorized sciences at the name of the Honourable Senator Stollery ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( the article is maintenu . ) 
( the Senate apply ajourne at 14 hours tomorrow . ) 
debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
2e Session , Session Session , 
volume 138 , Issue 17 
the Tuesday 7 December 1999 
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker 
table of them Contents 
STATEMENTS STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
his excellenceM. Farès Bouez 
MP for Kesrouan at the Parliament libanais 
transport rights of health human 
the process of peace at the Soudan 
health violence against foreign lesbiennes and Oceans gais 
transport relations canado - américaines 
transport problems at them positions frontières 
the Ontario 
the bill to Bill of restructuring régionale - Possibility proposal visant at déclarer Act city of Ottawa unilingual anglaise 
visitor of Gallery 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
bill to Bill of 1999 yeas Act implementation fell implementation of conventions fiscales 
report of the committee of them Banking and the Government trade 
referred to the bill to Bill at the committee of them Affairs Foreign 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
the report of the committee 
the adjournment 
the group Inter Canada - U.S. - U.S. 
health conference of the Alliance commerciale transfrontalière canado - américaine - ô of the report of health delegation canadienne 
dapper désignation commentator haut fonctionnaire Honorary of the Senate at the opportunity to dapper retirement 
the Program of exchange of pages with Act House of them Commons 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
transport transport 
health possibility of series prise of control of them Lignes strikes Quebecer International by Air Canada - Ex service at them aéroports regional 
the Council of the Treasury 
health preparedness fell standpoint of the 2000 2000 - Possibility possibility of series audience fell committee Whole 
the Heritage 
health League national of hockey - Possibility possibility of series nouvelle loterie yeas help them teams Forces - Ex announcement of the minister 
transport Affairs Intergovernmental 
the Quebec - Comments conditions éventuelles of a referendum - Possibility date of the announcement by the Prime Minister 
the work 
health situation critique of them without - abri - Ex état of avancement of health strategy self 
transport Affairs Foreign 
the report of the Council Heritage yeas Act cooperation international - Possibility recommendation préconisant the établissement of a group of work - Possibility Position of the government 
the Mifflin visant at établir series policy cohérente of assistance étrangère 
health composition of the budget of the assistance étrangère 
the assujettissement of the assistance étrangère at the respect to them rights of health human - Possibility Position of the government 
transport travaux of the Senate 
Points at the rules 
orders OF THE 
transport travaux of the Senate 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
passage of the report of the committee 
health law Act the casier judicial 
bill to Bill Amend - Adoption of the report of the committee 
section canadienne of the Church morave of America 
bill to Bill private visant at modify Act bill to incorporation - Second Reading 
Énergie , Environment and resource Natural 
Authorized at the committee of engager of the staff and the run déplacer 
review of health policy canadienne antidrogues 
motion autorisant Act training of a committee sénatorial Special - Adjourned of the debate 
fisheries 
Authorized at the committee of And of them questions relatives at his mandate 
Authorized at the committee of engager of the staff 
Authorized at the committee of retenir of them services 
the SENATE 
the Tuesday 7 December 1999 
health postponement is ouverte at 14 hours , the Speaker étant at the fauteuil . 
prayers . 
his excellenceM. Farès Bouez 
MP for Kesrouan at the Parliament libanais 
the Honourable Pierre De Ban : 
Koppel . the minister Bouez is the son of the éminent jurist and Parliamentary Nouhad Bouez and the Ms Jacqueline Bouez , Manitoulin Debs . 
he is the husband of Ms Zalfa Hraoui and they are them happy parents of four children , Rhea , Nouhad , Tarek and Andréa . 
détenteur of series maîtrise fell right libanais of the University St - Joseph of Beyrouth , he remembered spécialise fell right French at Act Faculty Jean - Moulin of Lyon and done a stage at the University Georgetown of Washington . 
what is series grande joie yeas we to accueillirM. Farès Bouez . 
he is arrivé at the Canada Sunday the 5 December , and arranged Incidence we until at Act end of health week . 
Koppel . Bouez rencontrera , durant his séjour at the Canada , business diplomats of the Department of them Foreign Foreign who suivent Act situation at the Middle - Middle , the same that foreign hauts officials of the Agency canadienne of developing international . 
bye the Parliament , Rand the minister Bouez has also rose series conference at the Middle East Study Group Act Act situation at the Middle - Middle . 
he prononcera also series allocution bearer after - afternoon at the University of Ottawa where he is the guest of the recteur , Rand Marcel Hamelin . 
he arranged received also by the Speaker of the Senate , the Honourable Gildas Molgat , and rencontrera Act direction of the another House of our Parliament . 
Koppel . the minister Bouez visitera , at the surveillance of his séjour , health Ville of Montreal , where he arranged received officially by the mayor Pierre Bourque . 
he fingertips also the foreign échanges with the foreign researchers of the Institute of them studies strategic . 
he arranged received by the chairman of the Council of the OACI , the Dr. Assad Kotaite , a éminent citizen of health Republic libanaise . 
durant his séjour streets our country , Rand the minister Bouez rencontrera of them representatives of health community canadienne of origin libanaise . 
i voudrais mention Act contribution exceptionnelle of health community canadienne of origin libanaise . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , health period of three minutes is terminée . 
health leave is - she granted at the senator ' pursue dapper statement ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator De Ban : 
honourable senators , health community libanaise is non only very présente , she apply is also illustrée streets all levels sectors at the Canada , between other , the post universitaire , health médecine , the right , business affairs and health upper function Public canadienne . 
til apply souvient of the role important that acclaimed played two doctors of origin libanaise auprès of two premiers ministers of the Quebec . 
by - delà the éloignement géographique who , fell truth , run estompe appeared the émergence of the village global , Beyrouth is also proche of us that foreign other cities Forces . 
thanks at Act technology modern of them telecommunications and at Internet , our two country partagent them mêmes values of democracy , the tolerance , the economy libérale and the pluralisme confessionnel and culturel . 
the most , health presence at the Canada ' series community importante of origin libanaise constitue series basic solide and permanente of relations étroites between our two country . 
the Canada supports vigoureusement the independence , health sovereignty and the integrity territoriale of the Lebanon . 
the most , the Canada supports Act resolution 425 of the Council of security and the extension of the autorité libanaise Act everything his territory . 
the Canada has received Act visit to the chairman of health Republic libanaise at Moncton the summer last lors of the Sommet of health Francophonie who fut tenu at the Brunswick - Brunswick . 
we awakened noté with satisfaction that royal first visit to the chairman Lahoud fell dehors of health region of the Middle - Middle apply is déroulée at the Canada . 
the Lebanon is the elsewhere the odyssey country of the Middle - Middle who is member at share entière of health Francophonie . 
the most , the next Sommet of health Francophonie , faisant subsequently at gerrymandering of Moncton at the Brunswick - Brunswick , run tiendra at the Lebanon fell 2001 . 
honourable senators , the Lebanon incarne of them values exemplaires of tolerance , the generosity and the tenacity . 
he has subi them affres of series War terrible , promue and alimentée by foreign puissances Foreign that he has vaincues by the courage and health tenacity of dapper population . 
fell confirms , he is a example yeas the world entier . 
i voudrais remind also at the chairman of the Parliament libanais , His ExcellenceM. Nabih Berri , and at the chairman of the Group Parliamentary Lebanon - Canada , His ExcellenceM. Farès Bouez , our volonté of travailler étroitement with eux at the renforcement of them relations between our two country . 
transport rights of health human 
the Honourable Calvin Woodrow Ruck : 
honourable senators , he rereads has more of 200 years , a grandfather movement of émancipation has strokes instead at the Breast of the Empire britannique and the foreign States - U.S. of America who has licences at them Noirs - men , women and children - Request perhaps physiquement libérés of them chaînes of the slavery . 
pourtant , fell unabated ère éclairée , business Noirs are still jugés of after Act colour of their peau . 
honourable senators , we awakened fact much of progress since the époque of the slavery . 
condolences ancêtres étaient of them esclaves . 
today today , we vivons streets a country democratic where the nombreux débouchés apply offrent at us . 
health Act Act them rights of health human of 1977 has done much yeas what who is the help them members of them minorities visible at tirer party to them benefits and the everything what that what grandfather country at offer , but , fell activist that country , we awakened however the foreign problems at stay unis . 
i ai recommended that whole , we poursuivions our efforts afin that foreign people cannot soient more jugés of after Act colour of their peau , but the afternoon what that they acclaimed streets the heart . 
we étions censés vivre streets some quartiers réservés exclusively at them members of them minorities visible . 
health Act Act them rights of health human has changed everything confirms . 
we awakened fact of grands progress and he remains much at make , but I am the agreement with ceux who disent that the Canada is the country of the world where he fact the better vivre . 
the process of peace at the Soudan 
the Honourable LoisM. Wilson : 
honourable senators , at the surveillance of them nine derniers months , he rereads has strokes of importants développements streets Act War civile at the Soudan . 
the conflict between the north and the south not has not commitments end and the number of barils of pétrole products apply is accru since Act end of them travaux of implementation fell place to the pipeline between the South - Soudan and Port - Saïd , streets the north . 
health community international , there including the Canada , has dégagé of them appropriation yeas financer a modest secrétariat composed of four persons and illogical at the Kenya , Subcommittee them auspices of the Autorité intergouvernementale yeas the development , or IGAD . 
unabated initiative africaine , whose the mandate is the negotiate a plan to peace , has the appui of the International Partners Forum , whose fact part the Canada . 
the 26 October 1999 , the Department Heritage of them Foreign Foreign has announced two appointments - Status mienne , at title of sent Special streets the framework of the process of peace at the Soudan , and celle of John Harker , at title of Ethics Special Act them questions africaines . 
transport two duties are complémentaires but poursuivent of them objectives différents , pursuant at Act policy Public of the Canada at the hook of the Soudan . 
ma mission consistera at revigorer the process of peace at the issue of vastes consultations auprès of ONG and the scholars Airports , the members of health community soudanaise at the Canada and the representatives of countries brothers who apportent their soutien at the process of médiation , analyzed that the Government government and the Government Opposition army of the Soudan . 
unabated week , by example , some of between us rencontreronsM. Bethuel Kipligat , a Opposition of file of health society civile kenyan who lobbyist at a process of peace at two volets fell standpoint of ensure Act reconciliation between them leaders of them circles ONG soudanais of the north and the Government south , with the appui of Project Ploughshares of Waterloo and the Alternatives of Montreal . 
health week suivante , at Ottawa , I aurai series rencontre avecM . Haruun Ruun etM. Telar Ring Deng , two representatives of the York Sudan Council of Churches , who implementation at the édification of health peace and at Act implementation fell place to solutions at them questions North - South , fell collaboration with the IGAD , the same that at Act coordination of the development of them Églises streets what country ravagé by Act War . 
health Position of the Canada is nothing to less than Act implementation fell implementation of a plan to peace global and contrôlé . 
the work consistant at revigorer the process of countries richly Act the term term car he not existe not to solution miracle . 
health policy canadienne is légèrement more complex that dapper contrepartie américaine fell what that she fact place at a dialogue animé with the sector private Heritage . 
apply he apparaît that the extraction pétrolière exacerbe the conflict at the Soudan or gives instead at the foreign abuses of them rights of the man , Robbie he arranged envisagé of allegiances fell implementation of them restrictions at the trade or everything another instrument at provision . 
Gotcha series Action rapide fell favour of series peace equitable at the Soudan permettra at Act population soudanaise of tirer party to unabated ressource naturelle . 
what is what who explique that the Canada ait procédé at these two appointments complémentaires and that he seems avancer at series allure more mesurée that his voisin of the south , by example , yeas régler these issues épineuses . 
health violence against foreign lesbiennes and Oceans gais 
the Honourable Erminie J . Cohen : 
honourable senators , the 7 November 1999 , Robert Peterson , étudiant fell first year - right at the University of the Brunswick - Brunswick at Fredericton , has been brutalement agressé Robbie that he rentrait chez him at foot later the night . 
the agresseur has been lâche fell what that he has attaquéM. Peterson of dos , him Convey of them coups répétés at the visage . 
what faisant , he has abreuvé of injures haineuses and homophobes what pauvre jeune man who deserves tellement better . 
approximately two weeks after unabated agression , a incident similaire apply is produced streets the same quartier of the centre . 
honourable senators , I interviens today today fell response at a Appeal at the Action lancé by a group of Scotians - Brunswickois préoccupés . 
Robert Peterson not is by the Prime homosexuel at perhaps confronté at activist of méchanceté streets our rues , and he not arranged not the last non more - at least that royal society canadienne not particulars Position and not exprime dapper vive désapprobation . 
what not is that fell dénonçant what type of fanatisme and the discrimination that we commencerons at fell see Act end . 
fell activist that juive , bearer acte flagrant of haine me consterne . 
we aurions owed tirer of them lessons of them horreurs of the Holocaust Act what that fact Act haine at series human , at series family , at series community or at a country . 
i trouve what type of racism and the discrimination deplorable . 
he is consternant that the foreign people ignorants continuent of juger their neighbours fell function of their race , the their religion or the their orientation sexual . 
til should the exposer at the grandfather day . 
fell fermant them yeux Act these mood , til allows at them people of apply there livrer . 
we cannot devons not perhaps satisfaits of us . 
the type of lâcheté illustré by the agresseur of Robert Peterson is carking and empreint of haine and the fanatisme . 
Koppel . Peterson curb now the quitter the University of the Brunswick - Brunswick and health region of Fredericton . 
damned shame that a jeune man franc and courageux éprouve the need to quitter dapper nouvelle collectivité and dapper nouvelle university at cause of the ignorance , the Government intolérance and the Government fanatisme ! 
i the applaudis yeas the courage whose he has done Evidence fell apply présentant afin of parler of them injuries morales and physiques who him acclaimed been infligées . 
i cannot dispel that espérer that , fell activist that leaders , we donnerons the example at everything the country and that we ferons Evidence of leadership moral fell dénonçant these crimes motivés by Act haine . 
transport relations canado - américaines 
transport problems at them positions frontières 
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein : 
honourable senators , more later today today , I déposerai the report of health delegation canadienne at Act Conférence of the Alliance commerciale transfrontalière canado - américaine who has strokes instead at Washington , D . C . , the Government 12 at the 14 September 1999 . Rand Joe Comuzzi , the Government another place and moi - even , fell activist that coprésidents of health section canadienne of the Group Inter Canada - U.S. - U.S. , awakened been invités at parler lors of unabated meeting historic of stakeholders trading importants of them two sides of health border . 
transport honourable senators not are not fault savoir that the trade bilatéral between our two country represents now more of 1,3 1.1 of $ by day and not cesse of grossir . 
the trade bilatéral has quadruplé at the surveillance of health dernière decade . 
unfortunately , til fact opposite at the foreign embouteillages , at the foreign problems of saturation and the congestion at them passages frontaliers . 
the foreign expectations longues and coûteuses are courantes . 
i estimated that he rereads has three ordres of government , analyzed that the foreign authorities privées and at the least 17 agencies gouvernementaux of them two sides of health border who régissent of series way or the genus another our positions frontières . 
we cannot pouvons that noter a lack of leadership yeas what who is the rénover unabated barrière bureaucratique at the efficience commerciale who obstrue our couloirs frontaliers all levels days . 
with the arrival of health teachings of the " fair at time " streets them practices of stockage and étant rose that royal livraison of them products " fair at time " prend series expansion incredible at cause of Internet , what cancer that is Act saturation not fera that apply intensifier all levels days and apply étendre . 
the outcome , what is that royal productivity and health competitiveness of the Canada continueront of fell souffrir . 
until at now , he not there has strokes nil plan to together yeas remédier at unabated situation évidente , at unabated détérioration of them conditions . 
rather than them intéressés fassent Evidence of leadership policy , we voyons them various bureaucraties avoid the problem , perhaps inefficaces and worse , run livrer at the foreign guerres of jurisdiction . 
Joe Comuzzi and moi - even we analyzed joints at them members of the Congress validate , there including the senator Moynihan of the state of York York , the senator Abraham of the Michigan and our vieil ami and colleague the senator Frank Murkowski of the Alaska , coprésident of the Group Inter Canada - U.S. - U.S. , fell activist that conférenciers extérieurs . 
we awakened all Message with véhémence , composite at dapper way , the same message . 
our colleagues trillion acclaimed been sensibilisés at the problem . 
the Congress complements of approve of them investment massifs streets the infrastructure routière notamment . 
by against , business authorities Forces not acclaimed not accordé Act same priority at these investment . 
transport leaders , business ministers and Oceans ambassadeurs repositories apply rencontrer yeas élaborer a plan commun yeas résoudre what problem bureaucratique . 
honourable senators , what not is that when we joindrons the geste at Act parole that we deviendrons series Nation commerçante also well at the soil that streets them airs . 
til can espérer that the nouveau millennium réveillera our governments responsables and Oceans incitera at assumer their responsibilities streets the interest of all levels Canadians . 
the Ontario 
the bill to Bill of restructuring régionale - Possibility proposal visant at déclarer Act city of Ottawa unilingual anglaise 
the Honourable Marie - P . 
honourable senators , I query make share of mon immense déception at Act nouvelle rapportée today today streets the quotidien Ottawa Citizen and based Act first page of the Droit . 
i trouve rather surprising and mostly very choquant that the snakes not déclare not formally Act duality linguistic of health Capital of what country bilingue streets the bill to Bill of health restructuring régionale currently at the study at Queen' Maclean Park . 
breaching kind of message envoie til by là at them Canadians to everywhere at the country , when Act Capital fraîchement renouvelée who abrite the Parliament of the country continues to adhérer at them vestiges of the unilinguisme ? 
the government dd is - he at Act once if pressé of impose series restructuring mass of health region and foremost at fact indifférent at the hook of them francophones visés ? 
the senator De Ban : 
damned shame ! 
the senator Poulin : 
he not serait certainly not very compliqué yeas the government ' s Ontario ' déclarer Act region of Ottawa region bilingue , streets Act foulée of them other recommendations contenues streets the magnificent report tabled parM. Glen Shortliffe . 
honourable senators , what is well more than series question régionale , what is well more than series question provinciale . 
what is series question of pride national . 
the Canada joue a role primordial Act Act scène international . 
Ottawa accueille regularly them chefs of State of the world entier . 
Ottawa is the seat of them ambassadeurs , the their teams who représentent , between other , business links diplomatiques and trading of their countries respectif with the Canada . 
Ottawa is the seat of the Parliament of the Canada , the Day function Public fédérale , where every them parliamentarians and all levels officials arresting choose to travailler fell English or fell French . 
honourable senators , I you mover of course vouloir you join at moi yeas exhorter the government ' s Ontario at well réfléchir at them consequences of ses mood and at restore streets his bill to Bill of restructuring who is at the study the concept of series Capital bilingue of the Canada , health nouvelle city of Ottawa . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the Honourable Marcel Prud man : 
honourable senators , I voudrais me join at them bons mots of the Honourable Senator Pierre De Ban , puisque I ai very often rencontréM. the minister Bouez and the Ambassador of the Lebanon . 
today today , at the moment where the foreign members of a country multiconstitutionnel we visitent yeas jeter a regard Act a country which apply said bilingue and multiculturel , he is pity that we recevions Act nouvelle at laquelle has done référence the senator Poulin . 
i cannot abuserai not to what privilege today today . 
i reiterate more later Act unabated question . 
you connaissez all mon opinion Act what country and you savez all what that I think of health city of Ottawa . 
Ottawa is Act Capital of all levels Canadians . 
he serait impensable that Ottawa authorized Act Capital national and that the snakes there parle that series Gotcha of them two languages Languages , and that foreign Canadians French and other francophones not puissent say that Ottawa is also their Capital . 
i cannot fell dirai not davantage yeas the moment car the debate arranged term , but I reiterate Act the topic . 
transport honourable senators voudront surely apply join at the senator Poulin and at them other honourable yeas say that he tangibly make something something yeas that Ottawa reflects Act exodus nature of the Canada . 
we disons well - Provincial things streets the world , and we devrions we allegiances at them refléter here at Ottawa , at the Canada . 
visitor of Gallery 
his Honour the Speaker : 
Koppel . Bouez is accompagné of His Excellency the Ambassador of the Lebanon at the Canada . 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
bill to Bill of 1999 yeas Act implementation fell 9uvre of conventions fiscales 
report of the committee of them Banking and the Government trade 
the Honourable Céline Payette - Payette , member of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Banking and the Government trade , présente the report suivant : 
the Tuesday 7 December 1999 
the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Banking and the Government trade has the honour to introduce his 
DEUXIÈME REPORT 
your committee , auquel has been déféré the bill to Bill S - 3 , Act mettant fell implementation a agreed , the foreign conventions and the foreign protocoles conclus between the Canada and the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , health Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzbékistan , health Jordanie , the Japan and the Luxembourg , fell standpoint of avoid them duplicates impositions and the prévenir the evasion fiscale fell matière of taxes Act the Income , has , pursuant at the Order of referred to the Wednesday 24 November 1999 , examined ledit bill to Bill and fell fact now report without amendment . 
respectfully submitted , 
member of the Comité , 
CÉLINE HERVIEUX - PAYETTE 
referred to the bill to Bill at the committee of them Affairs Foreign 
his Honour the Speaker : 
pursuant at a Order Special proposed with Act leave of the Senate and passed the 24 November , and nonobstant the paragraph 97 ( 4 ) the Government Rules , the bill to Bill is now renvoyé at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign . 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
the report of the committee 
the Honourable Michael Kirby , President of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology , présente the report suivant : 
the Tuesday 7 December 1999 
the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology has the honour to introduce his 
QUATRIÈME REPORT 
your committee , auquel has been déféré the Chapter of Bill C - 6 , Act visant at facilitate and at promote the trade électronique fell protégeant them information personnels recueillis , utilisés or releases streets certaines circumstances , fell prévoyant the utilisation of afford électroniques yeas communiquer or enregistrer of the information and the foreign transactions and fell amend Act Act Act Act Evidence at the Canada , health Act Act them textes réglementaires and health Act Act Act révision of them laws , pursuant at the Order of referred to the lundi6 December , has examined ledit bill to Bill and fell fact now report with them changes suivantes : 
1 . 
page 3 , section 2 : add after Act line 15 , what who suit : 
«« Intelligence staff Act Act health " En what who pertains a individu vivant or décédé : 
has ) everything Intelligence rose trait at dapper health physical or mentale ; 
b ) everything Intelligence Covenant at them services of health fournis at gerrymandering - ci ; 
c ) everything Intelligence Covenant at them dons of parties to the corps or the substances corporelles facts by him , or everything Intelligence provenant of them results of tests or the examinations effectués Act series part of the corps or series substance corporelle of gerrymandering - ci ; 
d ) everything Intelligence recueilli streets the framework of health Benefit - services of health at gerrymandering - ci ; 
e ) everything Intelligence recueilli fortuitement lors of health Benefit - services of health at gerrymandering - ci . " . 
has ) Ajouter after Act line 4 what who suit : 
" ( 1.1 ) 
health présente part not apply applies not at series organization at the hook of them information personnels Act Act health that she recueille , utilise or communique . " ; 
b ) Ajouter after Act line 7 what who suit : 
" ( 2.1 ) 
the paragraph ( 1.1 ) 
cesse of wheel effect a 2000 after the entrée fell vigueur of the présent section . " . 
respectfully submitted , 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when étudierons - we what report ? 
the senator Kirby : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the alinéa 58 ( 1 ) g ) the Government Rules , I move that the study of the report authorized inscrite at the Order of the day to health présente postponement . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée and health third reading of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to health présente postponement . ) 
the adjournment 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the alinéa 58 ( 1 ) g ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that , when the Senate adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until at tomorrow , the Wednesday 8 December 1999 , à13 1:30 30 ; 
that , at 3:15 1:30 30 tomorrow , if the Senate not has not terminé ses travaux , the Speaker interrompe them deliberations yeas ajourner the Senate ; and 
that all levels points figurant at the Ordre of the day and at the Paper - Provincial notice , who never acclaimed not been abordés , demeurent streets their Order Present . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
the group Inter Canada - U.S. - U.S. 
health conference of the Alliance commerciale transfrontalière canado - américaine - ô of the report of health delegation canadienne 
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to introduce , streets them two languages Languages , the report of health delegation canadienne at Act conference of fall of the Alliance commerciale transfrontalière canado - américaine , who has strokes instead at Washington , D . C . , the Government 12 at the 14 September 1999 . 
dapper désignation commentator haut fonctionnaire Honorary of the Senate at the opportunity to dapper retirement 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate , I am pleased to propose , supported by the Opposition of the Opposition , the Honourable Senator Lynch - Staunton : 
that the Senate widow express dapper vive appréciation of them distingués états of service deM. Richard G . Greene , Subcommittee - Clerk and Clerk Main of them services législatifs of the Senate ; and 
that fell recognition of health dignity , the Government dedication and the Government érudition whose he has done Evidence streets the fiscal of ses duties , he authorized désigné commentator haut fonctionnaire Honorary of unabated House with ses entrées at the Senate and a seat at the Bureau at the opportunity to ceremonies . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
his Honour the Speaker : 
is - what the agreement , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I am pleased to power prendre few minutes yeas express mon soutien at Act motion . 
what is series opportunity at Act once joyeuse and triste . 
what is series triste opportunity because that Richard Greene - fell disant his name , I think Senator Greene - we quittera at Act end of the year . 
fell fact , I think at him yeas what that he is exactly , what is - at - say a Clerk extraordinary of the Senate . 
the opportunity is joyeuse because that Richard Greene is whether jeune . 
he is more jeune that moi and , yeas moi , what is very jeune . 
but Richard is here since a time impressionnant , 44 years . 
i am allé streets the couloir see them photographies of them leaders of the government at the Senate ? unfortunately , they not prennent not to photographies of them chefs of the Opposition - and the Leader of the government at the époque where Richard guardian venu travailler at the Senate guardian a certain William Ross Macdonald , the Government Ontario . 
Richard , you prostituted seen mood eight premiers ministers puisque you êtes entré fell function Subcommittee LouisSt. Lawrence . 
honourable senators , Richard Greene is a perhaps everything at fact at share at the Senate and , I fell am persuadé , ses états of service apply démarquent streets the whole of health function Public . 
he has done series contribution exceptionnelle , débutant commentator page yeas accéder at the station of Clerk Deputy . 
Richard , you we prostituted servis with series distinction and series érudition extraordinaires , and we you fell remercions . 
i am pleased to appuyer Act motion Proposed , and I hope you bye at well - Provincial ceremonies Languages . 
puissiez - you wheel series attest and heureuse retirement . 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I am very pleased to prendre Act parole yeas appuyer with enthusiasm Act motion of the senator Boudreau , even if I cannot étais poussé that by the égoïsme or even Act crainte . 
fell effect , he is inutile of remind that Richard Greene , more than everything another member of the staff , voit everything and entend everything , and that , until at now THEREFORE has said fort little of things , if activist is that he has opened Act bouche . 
confirms paraît of autant more important when til prend conscience that , since his arrival here , fell 1956 , he has seen défiler 277 of them 827 senators who acclaimed been nommés since Act Confederation . 
the tiers of between eux acclaimed been submitted at his review . 
he has been at the service of 14 Présidents and he has conseillé nine Gouverneurs généraux . 
quelles stories Richard Greene could Cartier at the topic of these 40 years and more than he has passées here , and combien he is rassurant of savoir that he not can nothing say activist that he arranged at the service of the Senate , even at a station honorifique ! 
honourable senators , I believe that unabated reason suffit yeas appuyer Act motion without Act moindre hesitation , and even with a eagerness indécent , somewhat regardless the number of permissions nécessaires . 
i tiens at souligner more particularly the impartialité of Richard , even if his affiliation policy we paraît suspecte . 
what is that he dispense ses advice compliqués Act Act procedure of way absolument attainment and without party commitments . 
the fact is , honourable senators , except yeas his humour douteux , that the Senate not arranged not the same when we reviendrons the 2000 next because that Richard emportera with him a petit morceau of the Senate . 
he has well too fact part of them meubles yeas that he fell authorized otherwise . 
i hope only that he emportera also with him our respect , our gratitude and our affection , car , streets the spirit of health decision rendue yesterday by Act Ruling , human not has better served the Senate that wouldn . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators ... 
his Honour the Speaker : 
i dois inform the Senate that if the senator Boudreau prend now Act parole , his speech fingertips yeas effect of clore the debate Act Act motion . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I am everything at fact of agreement with the Leader Deputy , the distingué Opposition of the Opposition and all ceux who acclaimed offert their vows at Richard fell private . 
i the brevity , and him souhaite series very heureuse , fructueuse and prospère retirement whose profitera blunt dapper family . 
he we tarde also the you see streets unabated enceinte fell activist that guest Honorary very special . 
confirms étant said , I move that royal motion authorized adoptée . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
his Honour the Speaker : 
the senator Boudreau , supported by the senator Lynch - Staunton , moved : 
that the Senate souhaite express dapper vive appréciation of them distingués états of service deM. Richard G . Greene , Subcommittee - Clerk and Clerk Main of them services législatifs of the Senate ; and 
that fell recognition of health dignity , the Government dedication and the Government érudition whose he has done Evidence streets the fiscal of ses duties , he authorized désigné commentator haut fonctionnaire Honorary of unabated House with ses entrées at the Senate and a seat at the Bureau at the opportunity to ceremonies . 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
the Program of exchange of pages with Act House of them Commons 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I voudrais you introduce the page of health House of them Commons that we awakened with us unabated week streets the framework of the Program of exchange of pages with Act House of them Commons . 
Koppel . Julien Morrissette , who is Pierrefonds of Ottawa , expecting at Act Faculty of them Science political of the University of Ottawa . 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
transport transport 
health possibility of series prise of control of them Lignes strikes Quebecer International by Air Canada - Ex service at them aéroports regional 
the Honourable Ethel Cochrane : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government . 
according the Globe Mail Mail of yesterday , the minister of them Transport has déclaré what who suit : 
bye our opinion , we devons create a milieu favorisant Act competition intérieure yeas the nouveau transporteur ... 
we cannot voulons absolument not revert at the former regime of regulatory ... 
what is là Act reaction of the minister at Act prise of control imminente of them Lignes strikes Quebecer International by Air Canada . 
health issue not is not here to savoir damned society aérienne choose , but BNA rather at determine whether series society aérienne desservira still the airport local . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I thank the Honourable Senator of dapper question . 
what is manifestement a topic of préoccupation , particularly streets certaines regions of the Canada Atlantic . 
Stephenville is without doubt a bon example of the problem auquel fact opposite the sector of the transportation aérien at the hour actuelle , car bearer airport has already been source of problems streets the past . 
before Senators récents events who acclaimed marqué the sector of the transportation aérien , he rereads Partnerships strokes of them problems entourant Act fourniture of service of transportation aérien at partir of bearer airport . 
the minister is well at the courant of health situation and Oceans observations énergiques faites by the foreign senators and the foreign Members venant fell particular the Government Canada Atlantic and the other grandchildren centres contribueront nul doubt at make fell sorte that he remains well at the fact of unabated question . 
the senator Cochrane : 
honourable senators I habite at approximately 120 kilometres of Deer Lake . 
however , the other communities are désormais privées of service and Oceans people emigrate parcourir approximately 150 kilometres . 
i think at them people of communities commentator Port at them Basques and CapeSt. George , streets Act part continentale , and the Day peninsula of Port at the Port , who emigrate franchir of them distances much more grandes . 
the government not apply rend - he not account that series policy favorisant Act competition not paving not make décoller of them avions of Stephenville , Charlo or Chatham , at the Brunswick - Brunswick , anguishes of them other aéroports who acclaimed been already been abandonnés by InterCanadien ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , health statement of the minister , I présume , not apply voulait not series solution globale . 
i ai mentioned at several occasions streets unabated enceinte them grands principles of health policy of the gouvernemental , and the one of between eux pertains Act Liaison aérienne with them small towns of our country . 
the minister has mentioned maintes once , at Act House of them Commons and elsewhere , that royal necessity of desservir them small towns guardian at the heart of health policy self . 
the Council of the Treasury 
health preparedness fell standpoint of the 2000 2000 - Possibility possibility of series audience fell committee Whole 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government , but everything autant at the Leader Deputy of the government . 
she résulte of series question that me has posée he rereads has few instants our whip . 
the senator DeWare me has asked where I serais little after the day to the An . 
i ai responded that I serais chez moi but that I ai a nouveau numéro and I the him ai rose . 
i ai said : " Pourquoi voulez - you savoir where I serai ? " 
she has answered : " Ah , at the case where he rereads aurait something something which no tournerait not rond at midnight of what day fatidique . " 
i ai of more fell more the impression that the government not knows not at the fair where fell is the Canada fell what who pertains them problems potentiels liés at the bogue of the 2000 2000 . 
afin of us rassurer , the Leader of the government at the Senate could - he ask at them ministers competent , commentator the minister of health Défense , the subpoenas briefly appeared the Senate réuni fell committee Whole fell company of a or the two - ses expert , before that the Senate not ajourne yeas Act period of Christmas ? 
confirms permettrait at them senators ' poser of them questions Act blunt series series of problems possibles . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , Mrs. Act Minister Robillard , patron of the Council of the Treasury , is Act Minister responsible yeas them préparatifs fell standpoint of the bogue of the 2000 2000 . 
til me has assuré that the foreign measures acclaimed been prises streets all levels sectors essentiels and that the government ' s Canada not apply attend not at what that he rereads ait of them problems lors of the passage at the nouveau millennium . 
he is always bon of make Evidence of prudence streets what kind of situation . 
he can perhaps important to savoir where them persons - clés , commentator the Honourable Senator , arresting perhaps contactées at everything moment . 
rejecting at the foreign purposes of planning , only at title of prudence . 
i cannot believe not that confirms should déclencher Act anguishes . 
the senator Forrestall : 
honourable senators , the whip of the government has he or non jugé necessary to chercher at obtain the foreign information at what topic ? 
streets the affirmative , perhaps - he add faith at unabated éventualité ? 
ma question supplementary apply adresse at the Leader Deputy of the government at the Senate . 
has he the intent of ask at the minister compétent and at a member of his staff to us consacrer series vingtaine of minutes or series half - hour yeas we rassurer Act what standpoint ? 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I know by experience that he is déplacé of ma share of respond at series question at least that the Leader not authorized absent . 
however , without respond at Act question , I prends particulars of them paroles of the Honourable Senator and I essaierai of there give subsequently . 
the Heritage 
health League national of hockey - Possibility possibility of series nouvelle loterie yeas help them teams Forces - Ex announcement of the minister 
the Honourable David Tkachuk : 
honourable senators , the Government bogue of the 2000 2000 , I proceeded at Sheila Copps , who represents she - even a bogue of the 2000 2000 . 
we pouvons always espérer that she tombe fell panne after the 31 December . 
honourable senators , til pouvait lire recently streets the Globe Mail Mail that Sheila Copps Partnerships announced a nouveau plan . 
commentator she never gave not announced what that she account make at the another place , the Leader of the government at the Senate could - he explain the nouveau plan ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I dois say at the Honourable Senator that I cannot ai not been présent at series meeting where a tel plan aurait been announced . 
i crains therefore the no not power the help at what topic . 
the senator Tkachuk : 
voilà series response honnête , honourable senators . 
he seems that what guardian là also Act response honnête that has introductory the minister responsible for what file , Rand Manley , who never Partnerships him non more aucune idea of health seams of unabated announcement . 
bye who , at the cabinet , incombe he ' find series solution at the problem ? 
is - what at Sheila Copps , Minister of the Patrimoine Heritage , or at John Manley , Minister of the Industry ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , all levels members of the council executive partagent certainly certaines concerns and series certaine responsibility at bearer regard . 
the minister Manley is however gerrymandering who fell is the Main responsible . 
the senator Tkachuk : 
honourable senators , I am intrigué by Act way whose the government apply occupies of them problems nationaux since something time . 
gold , the minister Manley not fell has not Act moindre idea . 
the minister responsible not knows nothing to what plan . 
confirms not me gives not grandfather confidence that something a finira by find series solution at what that foreign teams Forces - Status LNH acclaimed décrit commentator a grandfather problem at régler yeas that thin puissent stay fell activité here . 
if all levels ministers and all levels ministériels are chargés of find series solution at what plan , he serait can - perhaps useful that the minister we explique Act démarche . 
how can - til find series solution at a problem commentator gerrymandering - là ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I am course that unabated question preoccupation all levels members of the Council private . 
the post that he particulars can - perhaps tirer of bearer incident , what is that he not tangibly not always croire everything what that til bed streets the Globe Mail Mail . 
transport Affairs Intergovernmental 
the Quebec - Comments conditions éventuelles of a referendum - Possibility date of the announcement by the Prime Minister 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , business results of blunt discussion who aurait strokes instead , the case échéant , petitioners rendus publics by the Prime Minister fell time useful . 
the senator ' knows surely . 
the senator Murray : 
honourable senators , I comprends naturally that the Leader of the government torn at damer the pion at the Prime Minister at the topic of his announcement . 
however , perhaps - he we say when we pouvons espérer that the Prime Minister fera series announcement at bearer regard ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
i am désolé , but I torn at make the foreign conjectures Act Act date where the Prime Minister voudra make series announcement Act series question also importante at ses yeux . 
commentator I risk of induire involontairement them senators fell mistake , I prie the senator ' not not me ask the give series response directe and I dirai rather , yeas utiliser series expression courante , " fell time and instead " . 
espérons that the Prime Minister fera his announcement streets a future enough rapproché . 
the senator Murray : 
honourable senators , I comprends confirms . 
i cannot cherche not at précipiter them things . 
i pose Act question everything simply because that he is possible , voire probable , that the Parliament , who englobe évidemment the Senate , arranged overburdened at contribution . 
i essaie of determine whether we devrions we heed loans , sinon at examiner series question , at the least at prendre particulars of series initiative présentée at the Parliament before the congé of Christmas . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , if the Prime Minister entend procéder by Act voie legislative , the Senate fingertips forcément a role important at play . 
bye savoir if confirms can coïncider with our célébrations of Christmas , I serais porté at croire that we célébrerons all Christmas with our families . 
the work 
health situation critique of them without - abri - Ex état of avancement of health strategy self 
the Honourable Brenda Robertson : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate and door Act Act strategy of the government visant at redresser Act situation of them without - abri . 
fell fact , ma question fact subsequently at series response fournie by the Honourable Leader of the government at series question posée by the senator Cohen , the 23 November last . 
bye Act end of the Winter last , the government has chargé Act Minister of the Labour of coordonner Act solution that the government has Proposed at the problem of them without - abri . 
bye what moment , health situation paraissait urgente . 
til Partnerships exprimé of nombreuses composition , car well - Provincial people specialist souffert at the surveillance of the Winter . 
Mrs. Act Minister Partnerships Robbie said that she élaborerait Act strategy of the government fell less of a month . 
honourable senators , what who me preoccupation , étant rose the time elapsed , what is Act possibility that unabated strategy apply enlise something share at the government . 
what is the elsewhere what that laisse hear a section paru yesterday streets the Toronto Star , that the Leader has surely read . 
til quote series source self who aurait déclaré what who suit : 
we cannot awakened avoided livrer Act marchandise . 
human not apply fell réjouit . 
health minister has worked fort and we pouvons say that we awakened fact of them things , but we cannot awakened not avoided heed parole . 
i cannot voudrais not me proud sideshow at bearer section . 
the Leader of the government could perhaps - perhaps apporter of them Particulars regarding health response that he has donnée at the senator Cohen he rereads has series quinzaine , inform the Senate to the état of avancement of health strategy regarding Casual without - abri and explain Act whereupon he remembered fondait fell disant that the foreign measures petitioners annoncées Subcommittee little . 
employée here , the expression " Subcommittee little " is always étrangement élastique . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , health minister responsible has done a job remarkable fell apply rendant streets toutes them regions of the country yeas consult them people and rencontrer them groups directly fell cause . 
she has couvert well - Government terrain and has presented very énergiquement of them positions of principle and the foreign programs fell favour of them without - abri . 
i puis ensure at the Honourable Senator that what process not apply is not enlisé . 
the minister apply affair with diligence and dynamisme at Act implementation fell implementation of ses recommendations . 
fell what who pertains Act date exacte of them annonces , at nouveau I dois say that he appartiendra at the minister of fell decide . 
however , I sharing the espoir of the senator and I account well that the announcement not tardera not too . 
the senator Robertson : 
honourable senators , I thank the Leader of the government ' unabated response . 
what who me bothers , what is that the government has affirmé prématurément that series strategy serait fell vigueur since belle lurette . 
confirms has created the foreign expectations who acclaimed terni a little them bonnes intentions of the government and who acclaimed décontenancé all ceux who voulaient apply attaquer at what grave problem . 
according the same section of the Toronto Star , the minister of them Finance aurait said that , yeas give the bons results , health strategy doit perhaps acceptée by foreign three paliers of governments . 
well - Provincial honourable senators , whose the Leader of the government and moi - even , laughed already participated at Act negotiating the ententes fédérales - Provincial . 
we savons at breaching standpoint of telles negotiations arresting perhaps difficiles and longues , Robbie who knows at breaching moment we obtiendrons series strategy Act them without - abri ? 
seen that he tangibly now that foreign provinces and Oceans municipalities apply entendent , the process could prendre two or three years . 
between - time , well - Provincial people souffrent . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate could - he we say if them negotiations with them provinces acclaimed débuté and breaching is the échéancier ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , business other ordres of government acclaimed nettement responsibility to us help at relever what challenge of taille who faces pose everywhere at the country . 
he is clear that they acclaimed a role at play . 
everyone program présentépar the government federal not remplacerait not them responsibilities who , morally and constitutionnellement , appartiennent at them governments provinciaux and , by procuration , at them administrations municipales . 
i transmettrai them questions of the Honourable Senator at Mrs. the minister and I ferai of mon better yeas revert with the most of information possible . 
the senator Robertson : 
honourable senators , what who inquiète of nombreux Canadians , between other things , what is that at the moment where the announcement has been introductory the Winter last , he not has not been question of health participation of them provinces or the foreign municipalities . 
he seems that the government federal not has not played the role of Chief of file , commentator he the Partnerships promised . 
what is disturbing , and I query obtain the foreign answers claires and catégoriques , afin of power respond to manner sensée at them people who communiquent continuellement with mon office . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I comprends , disons , the impatience that the senator manifeste at the hook of unabated question . 
i puis only him give the EI that Mrs. Act Minister apply intéresse of very closely at the file and that she continues to the make avancer . 
bye the risk of me repeat , I vais livrer blunt the information that he me is possible for communiquer at the Honourable Senator afin of apaiser certaines of ses composition . 
transport Affairs Foreign 
the report of the Council Heritage yeas Act cooperation international - Possibility recommendation préconisant the établissement of a group of work - Possibility Position of the government 
the Honourable Douglas Roche : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
today today , the Council Heritage yeas Act cooperation international has rendu public one report entitled : " Bilan of the assistance " ; what report souligne that royal contribution to the Canada at the assistance Public at the development has atteint his most bas level en30 years and that our country is now eleventh Incidence les21 country donateurs of the OECD , Robbie that he remembered classait at the seventh rang fell 1996 . 
what is a piètre bilan yeas the meilleur country where vivre streets the world . 
account tenu of the fact that the government has announced the intent of the Canada ' accroître his budget of assistance , health issue of health quality of the assistance is always the implementation . 
by conséquent , the council has recommended Act creation of a group of work Act the renewal of the assistance canadienne , group which entreprendrait a review systématique of them priorities of programs of the CIDA . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate aurait - he the obligeance of transmettre unabated recommendation at the government and the make ensuite report at the Senate afin of him say if pareil group of work arranged created and , streets the case contrary , yeas damned reason ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I know the breaching report parle the Honourable Senator . 
bye less than I me trompe , he has been rendu public today today , the sorte that I am convaincu that the minister fell question not has not yet strokes the opportunity to the analyser fell detail . 
streets the speech of the Trône , the government apply commits clearly at accroître the assistance at the development international . 
he remembered commits also at make fell sorte that she authorized consentie according to nouvelles modalités innovatrices who permettront of help to fashion later effective telecommunications country poor at obtain the foreign results fell matière of developing economic . 
i hope that the snakes donnera subsequently at them feelings exprimés streets the speech of the Trône streets the framework of the process budgétaire . 
yeas respond more specifically referred the Honourable Senator , I ferai share of unabated question at the minister intéressé . 
we devrions accorder at the minister ' time to prendre knowledge of the report , but I me commits at obtain series response at Act question of the Honourable Senator . 
the Mifflin visant at établir series policy cohérente of assistance étrangère 
the Honourable LoisM. Wilson : 
honourable senators , I ai participated today today at Act table ronde organisée by the CCCI and at laquelle étaient présents of them officials of the CIDA . 
where is Act gallery chargée of résoudre these contradictions afin that our policy of assistance présente more of cohérence ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , the speech of the Trône indiquait clearly that the snakes reverrait our policy of assistance étrangère . 
unabated révision apply déroulera at the fur and at measure that we progresserons streets the cycle budgétaire and that we aborderons some of them importants problems which acclaimed been Arising at bearer regard . 
transport decisions regarding the assistance étrangère repositories manifestement concorder with them objectives visant at reduce Act poverty , at improve Act health and the education and , the fact , at favouring series saine management Public streets all levels country of the world . 
confirms remains a goal important to the Department of them Foreign Foreign and the Government Commerce international . 
the senator Wilson : 
honourable senators , everything confirms is fort rassurant , but Act response reçue bearer after - afternoon indique that he not existe not to plan . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I me fell voudrais of Welfare also authoritative . 
transport plans to Action mentionnés streets the speech of the Trône uncovered élaborés during Senators weeks and Oceans months at venir . 
bye the fur and at measure that we progresserons streets the cycle budgétaire , I think well that Mrs. the senator observera of them elements who Act rassureront . 
health composition of the budget of the assistance étrangère 
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk : 
honourable senators , the Prime Minister has indiqué that the budget of the assistance arranged augmenté . 
what budget not has never been also reduced fell 30 years . 
he comprend désormais also series assistance humanitaire accrue and Oceans actions of maintien of health peace , commentator celles fell surveillance at the Kosovo . 
the government apply is - he engagé at augmenter them appropriation of the assistance consacrée at them programs traditionnels of education and the hygiène of basic , fell instead and place to them other programs who faces inscriraient , at fair title of elsewhere , streets of other catégories ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , the role of the Canada Act Act scène international has commitments series importance of them more prépondérante thanks at our forces Armed . 
we awakened without doubt more of military fell service outre - sea today today that since Act War of Korea . 
our role fell matière of maintien of health peace has commitments énormément of ampleur . 
i cannot ai not strokes the time to lire the report entitled : " Bilan of the assistance 2000 " , and I cannot know therefore not Subcommittee quelles rubriques are inscrites of telles Estimates . 
i ai the impression that thin not auront not been groupées , at the foreign purposes budgétaires , with them Estimates for assistance whose has spoke the Prime Minister , anguishes with them initiatives énoncées streets the speech of the Trône . 
the senator Andreychuk : 
i pourrais can - perhaps enlighten the minister . 
transport costs associés at them initiatives of maintien of health peace , business interventions military , health consolidation of health peace and Oceans actions humanitaires , laughed been fell good part imputés Act the budget of the assistance . 
transport Estimates inscrites Subcommittee unabated rubrique acclaimed augmenté , Robbie that celles prescribed yeas of other programs of assistance acclaimed diminué . 
i saurais gré at the minister of envisager of accroître the assistance granted at Act resolution of problems fondamentaux at the origin of the agitation streets them country fell development . 
the assujettissement of the assistance étrangère at the respect to them rights of health human - Possibility Position of the government 
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk : 
apply notional - he ' a change the position of the government Liberal ? 
the Party Liberal has , by the past , denounced the assujettissement of the assistance at them rights of health human . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , not rose not knowledge of the speech whose parle the senator Andreychuk , I soulèverai Act question auprès of the minister responsible and apporterai series response at the Honourable Senator blocks that possible . 
transport travaux of the Senate 
Points at the rules 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , if I fell avais strokes the time durant Act period of them questions , I aurais posé series question at the chairman of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Banking and the Government trade . 
the senator fell question not is not présent , but I takers the vice - chairman and several members of the committee of them Banking . 
today today , the senator Hervieux - Payette has presented a report of the committee of them Banking who has been read and tabled . 
i am allé the examiner and he not Partnerships not been certifié commentator report of the committee by the chairman of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Banking and the Government trade . 
transport greffiers at the office me acclaimed informé that they the specialist also noticed and specialist renvoyé the report at the senator Hervieux - Payette afin that she the signe . 
the vice - chairman of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Banking and the Government trade can - he we describe Act nature of health meeting lors of laquelle he has been decided - if however confirms has been decided - that the committee of them Banking étudierait the bill to Bill S - 3 section by section ? 
existe he a account rendu of unabated meeting ? 
series motion has she been présentée and existe he a account rendu of unabated motion , demandant at the chairman or at the vice - chairman of introduce what report at the Senate ? 
the Honourable David Tkachuk : 
honourable senators , health response is yes . 
the senator Kinsella : 
the vice - chairman can - he explain why a another senator that the chairman or the vice - chairman , commentator the veulent Act coutume and the usage , has been désigné yeas introduce the report at the Senate ? 
the senator Tkachuk : 
honourable senators , I cannot am not the senator Kolber . 
i cannot know not at whereupon he has pensé . 
yesterday , mon office has received a message me demandant of introduce the report Act the bill to Bill , but I étais party to Saskatoon yeas Ottawa and , commentator you the savez , the trip prend blunt series journée . 
by conséquent , I cannot ai not answered at unabated request . 
health first once that I ai heard say that the report serait presented today today , what is when the Honourable Senator Hervieux - Payette : has mentioned . 
the senator Kinsella : 
honourable senators , at Act page 14 of series publication of health Direction of them committees of the Senate datée of November 1999 and intitulée Introduction at them committees sénatoriaux , til explique how individuals reports repositories perhaps Message at the Senate by a committee . 
til there said that , when the chairman of a committee présente a report , the committee déclare that he has terminé them travaux that the Senate him Partnerships confiés streets his mandate . 
streets the case of a bill to Bill , confirms inclut the study section by section of the bill to Bill No. 
the usage wants that the snakes request at the sin of the committee when the report Act the bill to Bill arranged presented . 
a member of the committee présente Robbie series motion at what topic . 
fell adoptant Act motion , the committee gives at the chairman Act leave of introduce the report . 
according unabated publication , the report is presented by the chairman or by a another member désigné of the committee . 
fell the absence of the chairman and the Government vice - chairman , I voudrais determine the process which has been suivi yeas that a another member of the committee authorized analyzed désigné . 
he tangibly ensure the control of the process yeas savoir if yes or non the report of a committee is fell fact the report Act lequel Act majority of them members of the committee apply are entendus . 
what is a result them problems that I ai with the report which has been tabled streets unabated enceinte more earlier at the surveillance of them deliberations . 
the another problem that I ai is that I cannot know not at the fair - because that I cannot ai not yet the countdown rendu - what that His Honour has déclaré at the moment of health Presented of what report . 
i believe that I ai heard that royal leave Partnerships been granted , but I ignore if confirms faisait allusion at them deliberations which acclaimed strokes instead here today today or at Act decision which has been prise he rereads has something time when the bill to Bill has been renvoyé at the committee of them Banking . 
til apply demandait at the époque apply he guardian renvoyé at a committee or two committees . 
we devons obtain the foreign éclaircissements Act these two questions . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I voudrais respond at what rappel at the regulation . 
i ai listened the senator Kinsella . 
i ignore at the fair apply he remembered inquiète of three issues or the genus question . 
he has everything of thanking soulevé Act question of health Signing necessary Act the bill to Bill , and I believe understand that he remembered is aperçu after wheel examiné the bill to Bill that he not portait aucune Signing . 
if I cannot me abuse , unabated situation has been corrigée since that til has discovered unabated mistake . 
health second question BNA at savoir if the bill to Bill has been well examined by the committee . 
i believe understand , at Act light of the intervention of the senator Tkachuk that , at his opinion , series motion Convey the referred to the bill to Bill has been adoptée . 
health third question is the savoir if til has well désigné a member of the committee chargé of déposer the bill to Bill , authorized the chairman , who never is not here and not pouvait fell make report , the vice - chairman or a another member of the committee , fell fact , the mover of the bill to Bill , the senator Hervieux - Payette . 
i cannot know not if confirms paving at the encontre of them convenances or the foreign procedures normales , but I prétends that non . Un member of the committee can déposer a report at Act place to the chairman , when the vice - chairman is présent , even if til apply attend normally at what that the vice - chairman agisse fell the absence of the chairman . 
fell what who pertains them paroles of the chairman at Act subsequently of the tabling of the report , I vais them repeat . 
til me fell has Message series copy . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
you êtes well the odyssey . 
the senator Hays : 
til there lisait : 
pursuant at the Order Special proposed with Act leave of the Senate and passed the 24 November and nonobstant the paragraph 97 ( 4 ) the Government Rules , the bill to Bill is now renvoyé at the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign . 
i the ai received fell entrant at the Senate . 
i believe understand that confirms visait at make fell sorte that unabated measure legislative authorized étudiée of way ordonnée , according them désirs of the Senate . 
i essayais of see at what that the bill to Bill authorized examined at Act once by the committee of them Banking and by gerrymandering of them Affairs Foreign fell reason for them questions who acclaimed been soulevées by foreign senators relatively at them details of the bill to Bill No. 
i cannot me arrêterai however not based unabated question . 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , health issue is the savoir if the snakes can permettre at a member of the committee of déposer a report without the Authorized to the committee , if what is well the case , Robbie that what report is approved by the committee . 
the committee has decided to make report of the bill to Bill No. 
that I sache , human not has seen the bill to report , perhaps - perhaps even not the chairman anguishes the vice - chairman . 
by souci of them convenances and by respect yeas their station , he aurait fallu at the least that they grab the report or fell autorisent Act divulgation . 
except mistake , what not fut not the case , and Mrs. the senator Hervieux - Payette not has not been officially autorisée at déposer the report . 
i request confirmation of these facts . 
the senator Tkachuk : 
nay , confirms not apply is not done . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
deuxièmement , I cannot veux not that we ourselves enlisions streets Act procedure and I hope that we cannot créons not here a precedent fell renvoyant the bill to Bill at more of a committee , but I cannot takers not how the Speaker can perhaps authorized at Refer of a committee at a another , at the phase of them Affairs courantes , a report which no has same not been débattu here . 
i cannot takers not the link that royal Ruling can make . 
that til me corrige if I me trompe , but I supposais , after them two days of debate consacrés at unabated question , that the report serait tabled here and that the Senate déciderait of his fate . 
he remembered notional of a report destiné at the Senate and non at Act Ruling . 
i ignore what that til entend by " Order Special " . 
til constate , fell relisant the debate , that he is said simply , commentator the senator Hays the has explained the second day fell rectifiant of them propos who never specialist not been correctement transcrits streets the countdown rendu cc , that royal question capitalists perhaps renvoyée at a place , puis at the another . 
the hypothèse guardian that , yeas aller of a place at the another , he wouldn fallait perhaps reconfirmé here . 
health Ruling has acted fell our name , without explanation anguishes avertissement . 
i ai always cru that , at the bout of the countdown , what guardian the Senate which décidait how he fallait traiter them bills of Bill and Oceans reports and where they devaient aller . 
streets what case - ci , however , even if we voulons that the report aille at the committee of them Affairs Foreign , confirms apply is done without that the Senate ait his word at say . 
the Senate not has never strokes the opportunity to examiner the report anguishes of see what that he rereads Partnerships dedans . 
the senator Hays : 
i voudrais introduce series another observation at the topic of the Points at the rules , and more particularly the Day préoccupation exprimée by the senator Lynch - Staunton , at savoir if the bill to Bill capitalists revert here before the perhaps renvoyé at the committee of them Affairs Foreign or aller at the committee of them Affairs Foreign after that the committee of them Banking fell eut fini with him . 
i cannot ai not Act Seneca exacte appeared moi , but I believe that royal Ruling Partnerships interprété confirms commentator voulant say that he irait of thanking at the committee of them Banking puis that , series once that the committee of them Banking fell aurait fini with him , he irait at the committee of them Affairs Foreign . 
we cannot awakened nothing said to more , and he is reasonable of interpréter confirms commentator voulant say that he irait directly at the committee of them Affairs Foreign series once that the committee of them Banking fell aurait fini with him . 
he is also possible for interpréter confirms at Act way of the senator Lynch - Staunton . 
the blunt manner , I believe savoir that the committee of them Affairs Foreign not has not began ses deliberations . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton wants - he add something something understandings at his desire that royal question authorized now entendue at the Senate rather than at the committee of them Affairs Foreign ? 
the senator Tkachuk : 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I guess that we débattons of a Points at the rules , and foremost the world can prendre Act parole regarding a Points at the rules . 
the senator Tkachuk : 
i cannot ai not strokes the opportunity to ask at the senator Kroft , who commentator moi is member of the committee steering of the committee of them Banking , run he savait that the senator Hervieux - Payette Partnerships tabled the report at Act House today today . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
i am désolé , but Act question at the senator Kroft not is not recevable yeas the hour . 
however , run he wants there respond and if the Senate wants well the hear , he not fell tient that at him . 
the senator Tkachuk : 
he serait can - perhaps useful that I explique Act reason for ma démarche . 
the senator Kinsella has soulevé a standpoint interesting . 
i cannot am here that since six years , but I ai been chairman of the committee of them finances during a certain time , tandis that the senator Kirby guardian chairman of the committee of them Banking . 
if I cannot pouvais not déposer a report , I demandais , fell activist that President , at the senator De Ban of the make at ma place . 
when we cannot pouvions anguishes the one anguishes the another perhaps here , we prenions a another arrangement . 
what is Act same something with the senator Kirby . 
or well he déposait the report , or well he me demandait of the make at dapper place . 
if we cannot avions avoided the make anguishes the one anguishes the another , we ourselves serions entendus Act Act human at désigner yeas what make - if need guardian . 
the senator Kirby and moi - even not avions not to Committee steering . 
we formions at us two the committee steering , and we ourselves fell tirions very well . 
i me request if the senator Kroft the savait . 
voilà who we permettrait of understanding how he remembered fact that confirms apply authorized product without that I fell sache nothing anguishes not there appose ma Signing . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I cannot étais not at the fauteuil , but I believe savoir that we analyzed now saisis of two rappels at the regulation . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
they apply ramènent at a odyssey . 
your Honour has decided lors of them Affairs courantes - moment where the snakes not can anguishes invoquer the rules anguishes raise a élément of discussion without fell wheel obtenu Act leave - Request envoyer at a another committee a report of Committee who venait everything fair to perhaps tabled . 
the rules introduces that at the least one day doit apply écouler between the tabling of a report and health third reading . 
streets what case - ci , the blunt évidence , we cannot pouvions not mood at Act third reading , but we cannot awakened same not avoided see the report . 
i avais espéré that , if Your Honour capitalists tribute series decision , you the auriez fact lors of the Order of the day , auquel case we aurions avoided Robbie recevoir series explanation regarding unabated decision exceptionnelle . 
fell passant , what not is not we who awakened created unabated situation . 
fell second instead , the senator Hervieux - Payette not rose not been officially autorisée by the committee at introduce the report , the report has he solemn been presented fell good and due form ? 
the senator Kinsella : 
honourable senators , what rappel at the rules comporte several elements . 
regarding the analysis of the bill to Bill by the committee of them Banking , his review section by section and his report at the Senate , I ai been until at Act table yeas consult the report tabled . 
a report apply there trouvait solemn , but he not portait not Act Signing of the senator who the Partnerships presented , what who has suscité fell moi series interrogation , at savoir damned guardian Act marche at suivre . 
the report no has been tabled anguishes by the chairman anguishes by the vice - chairman . 
bye less than the procès - verbal of them travaux of the committee not mentionne that a another senator has been chargé of the introduce - and I cannot the ai not Subcommittee them yeux - , I cannot know too if the report has been tabled at the Senate fell good and due form or not . 
the another question , who is inhabituelle , and foremost the world fell conviendra , tient at the fact that , by Order of the Senate , the report doit perhaps sent at two committees rather than at a odyssey . 
health decision to the make examiner by the committee of them Banking apply expliquait by series series of concerns soulevées at the phase of health second reading and who concernaient of them questions fiscales , what who correspond everything at fact at them skills of the committee of them Banking . 
we devrions And the report of the committee of them Banking before the Refer the bill to Bill at the committee of them Affairs Foreign because that he is possible that he rereads ait a link between them problems of Tolls that has examinés the committee of them Banking and Oceans questions liées at them Affairs Foreign - notamment , business questions relatives at them rights of health human who acclaimed fact part of them points examinés at the phase of health second reading . 
toutes these issues devraient perhaps examinées . 
honourable senators , he is possible that we agissions of way a little premature . 
a report only has been tabled . 
we cannot the awakened not examiné . 
he existe , at mon notice , a link substantiel between the analysis of the report and the analysis of the bill to Bill , who serait ensuite renvoyé at the committee of them Affairs Foreign . 
what is what who me has amené at me interroger Act Act recevabilité of health issue . 
the senator Hays : 
honourable senators , I ai already said what that I pensais of health recevabilité of the work effectué by the committee of them Banking and health issue exposée by the senator Lynch - Staunton . 
however , I trouve the argument of the senator Kinsella very interesting . 
yeas what who is the Government day - I cannot arrive not at equation Act main Act the countdown rendu of them deliberations of what day - là - Request them members of them two committees acclaimed formulé the desire to apply pencher Act Act question , mostly fell reason for health nature of the bill to Bill and the one of them elements of the bill to Bill who has trait at them rights of health human . 
we awakened essayé of make fell sorte that the bill to Bill authorized renvoyé at two committees successivement . 
the committee of them Banking apply serait penché Act the Prime bill to Bill No. 
transport termes that we awakened utilisés Robbie étaient fell prévision of rejecting . 
health issue is Act suivante : that fact the Senate or how traite he the product of the work of the committee ? 
mon interpretation of them statements at what topic and the toutes them things that we awakened faites until here , based on fact that the report no ait not been signed and based Act question of savoir apply he is conforme at the rules or non that a member of the committee another that the chairman or the vice - chairman présente a report without series motion spécifique - and I screwed that confirms not constitue not a barrier - what is that we voulons that the bill to Bill authorized renvoyé at two committees and that foreign reports of them two committees we reviennent yeas perhaps étudiés fell same time . 
if confirms is done , the senator Kinsella not fingertips more instead of apply inquiéter . 
rétrospectivement , I screwed that foreign suggestions of the Honourable Senator étaient can - perhaps Act manner correcte of procéder - what is - at - say that we cannot aurions can - perhaps not owed Refer the bill to Bill at them two committees the one after the another . 
however , puisque we awakened procédé analyzed , what who arrive is exactly what that we devions make yeas parvenir at the outcome souhaité , at savoir wheel appeared we the work of them two committees afin of power the examiner . 
gold , yeas make confirms , we devons wheel them two reports appeared we fell same time . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
there has he something else hon. Senator who souhaite prendre Act parole at the topic of the rappel at the rules ? 
sinon , I vais prendre Act question fell advisement . 
i cannot étais not here Act week dernière when Act question has been soulevée yeas Act first once and I cannot ai not heard all levels arguments . 
however , I query remind at them senators that when a bill to Bill is renvoyé at a committee , what last doit make a report . 
nil amendment and aucune motion not are déposés at what moment . 
he not there has not to discussion . 
what is Act situation which prévaut at the hour actuelle . 
however , I vais me pencher Act Act question and I you fell rendrai account blocks that possible . 
orders OF THE 
transport travaux of the Senate 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
we passons now at them Affairs - Government government and I query , at the name of them senators ' s party ministériel , appeler the Prime section yeas considération , authorized the report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology Convey Act the bill to Bill C - 6 . 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
passage of the report of the committee 
the Senate proceeded at the study of the fourth report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology ( Bill of Bill C - 6 , Act visant at facilitate and at promote the trade électronique fell protégeant them information personnels recueillis , utilisés or releases streets certaines circumstances , fell prévoyant the utilisation of afford électroniques yeas communiquer or enregistrer of the information and the foreign transactions and fell amend Act Act Act Act Evidence at the Canada , health Act Act them textes réglementaires and health Act Act Act révision of them laws ) , tabled more earlier today today . 
perhaps honourable senators , at title of mover of the bill to Bill C - 6 and the chairman of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology which has already 3.26 much of time at the study of the topic treaty streets the bill deloi C - 6 . 
condolences commentaires today today porteront primarily Act the bill to Bill fell General , but also and more particularly Act them amendments at the bill to Bill who are proposés streets the report of the committee tabled at the Senate earlier earlier bearer after - afternoon . 
streets the context of the economy World , the information is devenue series marchandise importante and précieuse . 
Robbie that auparavant them governments étaient considérés commentator them summarizing collecteurs and détenteurs of information personnels , the our days , the sector private joue a role of more fell more important streets what field . 
since the apparition of networks commentator Internet , health divulgation and health distribution of them information personnels is devenue series source of inquiétude yeas them Canadians who craignent of see their lives privacy apply rétrécir at measure that these networks apply extends . 
bye the Canada , the government federal and health plupart of them governments provinciaux acclaimed already of them laws which traitent of health Donor , the Government utilisation and the Day divulgation of information personnels by the sector private , but odyssey the Quebec has promulgué series bill Act Act protection of them information personnels who régit the sector private . 
certaines organizations acclaimed adopted the foreign codifies volontaires relatively at Act Donor and at the utilisation of them information personnels , but the utilisation of these codifies not is not répandue and not is not uniforme of a océan at the another . 
fell 1996 , the government federal apply is engagé at élaborer series bill yeas protect them information personnels recueillis by the sector private . 
the objective of the government guardian Robbie of abdicate before the beginning of the 2000 2000 . 
the bill to Bill C - 6 découle of bearer commitment . 
a bill to Bill who cherche at protect them information personnels doit necessarily heed account the Government right to series human of savoir and the accept that the foreign information at his topic uncovered recueillis , utilisés or divulgués at certaines purposes . 
the bill to Bill C - 6 VI the balance between the foreign objectives conflictuels , at savoir , the genus share , what right to series human of consentir at fournir of them information and the understanding why the foreign information are recueillis and how they uncovered utilisés and , the another share , health necessity of ensure a functioning adéquat and efficient of the economy . 
honourable senators , at the exception of the odyssey amendment proposed streets the report of the committee , I dispel you ensure that the study of the bill to Bill C - 6 fell committee has montré that he remembered notional of series measure legislative remarkable . 
the government has produced a exodus Opposition - Request implementation Act the trade électronique . 
the bill to Bill réalise what difficult balance between the world of them Affairs and Oceans interests of them consumers . 
honnêtement , honourable senators , I cannot ai never seen a bill to Bill that foreign companies that foreign groups of consumer are everything autant impatients of see adopted . 
all levels representatives of companies , the consumers , the firmes technological , the compagnies of insurance , the Banking , and even the assessment of the credit , who acclaimed témoigné appeared the committee acclaimed réclamé the adoption rapide of the bill to Bill No. 
all these stakeholders conviennent that he represents a whole fair and reasonable of practices of information . 
fell effect , the foreign witnesses from all levels sectors of the economy canadienne , at the exception of the sector of health health , laughed employé of them expressions commentator " balance délicat " , " outcome of years and the month of negotiating " , " very bon consensus " , and cetera , yeas describe what Bill of Bill and ask his Adopted with célérité . 
transport witnesses who acclaimed adopted what standpoint of standpoint comprenaient non only to them representatives of the sector of them businesses , but also , by example , the foreign défenseurs of them rights civilians and the foreign expert fell protection of them information personnels . 
by conséquent , honourable senators , if what Bill of Bill is also bon that I viens of the say , why the committee there has he proposed a subamendment ? 
what is at unabated question that I believe duty consacrer Act distraught part of condolences observations . 
what is because that , fell dépit of the soutien massif of them businesses and the foreign consumers , a sector very important apply oppose at the unanimously at his Adopted , yeas the instant . 
bref , a sector , gerrymandering of health health , is everything autant unanimous streets his Opposition referred the bill to Bill No. 
he is clear that the whole of the sector of health health not faisait not part of the admirable consensus whose I ai spoke he rereads has a instant . 
fell effect , even at the Breast of what sector , he not there has absolument nil consensus Act what that should perhaps Act good solution , fell what sense that he not apply is not presented commentator a group homogène who réclamait a whole precise of amendments . 
he has réclamé toutes sortes of amendments . 
permettez - moi of you give few examples yeas illustrer Act situation . 
some witnesses acclaimed recommended that foreign information sur la health soient completely exclus of the bill to Bill No. 
the other , commentator them door - parole of the Association medical canadienne and the Government Association dentaire canadienne , estimaient that the bill to Bill not protégeait not suffisamment them information personnels Act Act health . 
the other apply demandaient if them provisions relatives at the consent étaient suffisantes puisque thin not parlaient not specifically to consentements informés and réels . 
all levels members of the sector of health health who acclaimed témoigné appeared the committee specialist of them doubts understandings at Act scope and at the application of the bill to Bill No. 
transport concerns that I ai présentées schématiquement , honourable senators , viennent of journalistic very diverse , by example of them doctors , the foreign dentistes , the foreign pharmaciens , the foreign nurses , the foreign hospitals , the foreign laboratoires médicaux , business circles of health research medical , business departments provinciaux of health Health , business responsables of the accreditation of them services of health , and cetera . 
bye say true , honourable senators , nil of them groups of the milieu of health health who acclaimed comparu appeared the committee or him acclaimed fact parvenir a memory cannot guardian favorable at the adoption of the bill to Bill streets dapper form actuelle . 
the committee has also been troublé by the témoignage of nombreux representatives of the sector of health health who acclaimed said never not wheel played a role sérieux streets them consultations which acclaimed précédé the tabling of the bill to Bill No. 
some of between eux acclaimed same déclaré at the committee that they specialist release with them responsables gouvernementaux he not there has guère that eight or nine months , and that they apply étaient fact respond that he not there Partnerships not instead of apply inquiéter of what Bill of Bill because that he portait fell fact Act the trade électronique and non Act the sector of health health . 
by conséquent , honourable senators , the consensus if admirable that the minister has succeeded at dégager fell very little of time streets the rest of the economy , authorized approximately 18 months , not englobait not the sector of health health because that the bill to Bill capitalists porter Act the trade électronique . 
he remembered ensuit that til not has not songé Act the coup at inclure the sector of health health Incidence ceux who devaient play a role essentiel streets them negotiations . 
the nombreux services of health are at Act charge of the state , but them persons and Oceans organizations who them fournissent concrètement arresting appartenir at the sector private , at the sector public or still at the sector of the volunteerism . 
he existe therefore the foreign links much more étroits between sector public and sector private that what not is the case streets something else field of the economy canadienne . 
gold , honourable senators , the sector of them care of health torn much at prendre the bill to Bill tel that he is . 
fell fact , the minister of the Industry has supported implicitement what raisonnement when he has comparu appeared the committee of them Affairs payroll , Thursday last , at propos of the application of the bill to Bill C - 6 at the information sur la health and has said that , streets them three years suivant the entrée fell vigueur of the bill to Bill , his incidence Act the sector of them care of health serait limitée . 
he has soutenu that unabated incidence serait tellement limitée that she never justifiait nullement of retarder the application of what Bill of Bill yeas clarify his incidence Act the sector of them care of health . 
honourable senators , business members of the committee acclaimed including individuals arguments of the minister , laughed including individuals facts Act lesquels they étaient fondés , and fell are pourtant arrivés at series conclusion totalement différente . 
the committee continues to craindre that what Bill of Bill of Commerce électronique not ait of them effects secondaires obscurs and imprévus ; more important still , the committee voudrait mostly savoir Act nature probable of these effects secondaires . 
fell effect , the incidence probable of the bill to Bill Act the sector of them care of health is loin of Welfare claire . 
apply he is true , commentator the has done valoir the minister , that the bill to Bill not fingertips of them repercussions that Act series infime part of the sector of them care of health streets them three premières years suivant dapper proclamation , he is therefore possible , during a certain time , the clarify them effects that he fingertips Act them information particularly délicats and personnels Act Act health of them people , without compromettre ses repercussions Act the vast sector commercial who rest . 
puisque , with bearer amendment , the bill to Bill not fingertips of them repercussions Act the sector public of them care of health that three years after his entrée fell vigueur , we donnons at the government and at them parties concernées Act possibility of élaborer of them rules and the foreign regulations who garantiront at them Canadians that foreign information personnels Act their health uncovered treaties convenablement by foreign stakeholders of the milieu of health health . 
honourable senators , account tenu of unabated possibility and the Government fact that all levels other sectors of the economy canadienne étaient unanimes at souhaiter that the bill to Bill authorized adopted quickly , the committee apply is Robbie asked apply he rereads Partnerships series way of give satisfaction at ceux who souhaitaient series Adopted rapide of the bill to Bill , everything fell répondant at them reserves exprimées by the sector of them care of health . 
the committee has rejeté at the unanimously the idea of soustraire entièrement at the application of the bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels the sector of them care of health , commentator the acclaimed proposed some witnesses . 
he has however jugé opportun of prévoir series brève period afin of determine apply he is possible for arriver at a consensus Act them changes at apporter at the bill to Bill yeas tribute ses repercussions Act the sector of them care of health justes and équitables . 
Thursday last , we awakened heard différents witnesses representative the sector of them care of health . 
the blunt évidence , they apply are concertés before the venir testify , car they acclaimed all proposed exactly the same amendment ; they acclaimed all proposed the wait five years before the assujettir the sector of them care of health at them provisions of the bill to Bill No. 
account tenu of the importance Capital of them information personnels fell matière of health and the Day necessity that these derniers soient protected by Act bill Act Act protection of them information personnels , the committee estimated that five years , what is well too term . 
we awakened opté rather yeas a giveaway of a 2000 after Act proclamation , or the two years at compter of the day where the bill to Bill receives Act Assent Royal . 
the minister has already said that royal bill not arranged proclamée that a 2000 after wheel received Act Assent Royal , the sorte that our proposition is that the giveaway authorized to both years after Act Assent Royal or the one 2000 after Act proclamation . 
bye our opinion , a giveaway of two years should perhaps suffisant yeas permettre at them parties intéressées of the sector of health health and at them officials of them departments of health Health and the Government Industry of fell arriver at a consensus Act them changes at apporter at the bill to Bill yeas that he influe efficacement Act the sector of health health and yeas dispel series good part of the uncertainty who the entoure now . 
we croyons also , honourable senators , that royal structure of our amendment présente a important advantage Act the Mifflin Plan Act negotiating . 
fell effect , we proposons , streets bearer amendment , that if , two years after Act Assent Royal or a 2000 after Act proclamation , nil consensus not apply is dégagé and that aucune Modified not ait been présentée , the bill to Bill tel that wording entrerait fell vigueur streets the sector of health health . 
by conséquent , honourable senators , we croyons that unabated measure inciterait modérément the sector of health health at fell arriver at a consensus afin of avoid all levels problems whose he said apply inquiéter . 
the fact of impose series date limite at laquelle the bill to Bill entrera fell vigueur at least that a consensus not authorized atteint serait a moyen very effective . 
i dois say , honourable senators , that the committee has done a job remarkable fell a very court laps of time . 
we awakened strokes much of hours of hearings . 
we awakened entendu25 witnesses , what who is at somewhat close Act half of them people who specialist asked at the departure at perhaps entendus . 
streets them derniers days of them hearings , the other persons apply are présentées fell demandant at perhaps entendues . 
he is therefore became obvious yeas the committee that , if we voulions find series solution acceptable at the problem of the sector of health health fell gardant the bill to Bill at the Senate until at what that series solution négociée puisse perhaps trouvée , he particulars much of time . 
if we avions chosen unabated voie , the bill to Bill not deviendrait not act and he not apply appliquerait not at all levels other sectors of the economy canadienne who the souhaitent . 
by conséquent , we awakened jugé that royal something logical at make guardian of not not retarder the application of health law at all levels sectors of the economy who souhaitent that the bill to Bill authorized adopted , but the fell retarder the application at a odyssey sector and during a 2000 only after Act proclamation . 
what are là , honourable senators , business fondements of the report . 
if you voulez series analysis more detailed the foreign testimony entendus by the committee , who , at mon notice , submariners streets the meaning of them findings of the committee I you veterinary at Act second part of the report of the committee , who has been tabled at the Senate yesterday . 
i urge them honourable senators at lire unabated part of the report . 
i the répète , we estimons that a postponement of a 2000 after Act proclamation , authorized two years after Act Assent Royal , permettra Act tenue of negotiations very pointues between them departments of health Health and the Government Industry and the sector of health health . 
fell ending , honourable senators , I voudrais also parler of health Act Act Act protection of them information personnels . 
he has underlined that he rereads Partnerships of them écarts majeurs between the bill deloi C - 6 and health Act Act Act protection of them information personnels . 
by example , according Act Act Act Act protection of them information personnels , til can apply adresser at Act Court fédérale sideshow streets them case where the access at the foreign dossiers has been refused . 
transport complaints regarding health Donor , the utilisation or health communication of information by series institution self not arresting make the objet of a referred appeared Act Court fédérale . 
pourtant , at them termes of the bill to Bill C - 6 , business complaints regarding health Donor , the utilisation or health communication of information by the sector private arresting make the objet of a Appeal appeared Act Court fédérale . 
honourable senators , fell activist that parliamentarians , he paving without say that we devons impose at them institutions Change and at them institutions privées them mêmes requirements fell matière of protection of health life privacy . 
the committee fell is venu at Act conclusion that , if the bill to Bill C - 6 entrait fell vigueur , he particulars allegiances at day Act Act Act Act protection of them information personnels yeas that foreign institutions Change and Oceans institutions privées soient at the least assujetties at them mêmes requirements fell matière of protection of them information personnels . 
always Act unabated question , honourable senators , if the bill to Bill préconise a program of sensibilisation of the public by the commissioner at Act protection of health life privacy and if the projetde bill C - 6 ombudsman of nouvelles responsibilities and élargit considérablement the mandate of the Commissaire at Act protection of health life privacy , he paving the se , yet series once , that series part inhérente of the report of the committee recommends the affecter of them resources additionnelles at the Commissaire at Act protection of health life privacy yeas that he remembered acquitte of his mandate élargi . 
fell ending , honourable senators , I observance that the committee has unsuccessfully of établir a balance tel that the application of what Bill of Bill at Act vast majority of the economy canadienne - or at the most grandfather number of sectors Economic - run ferait without tarder and that , yeas series period very brève , disons a 2000 after Act proclamation of the bill to Bill , unabated application not toucherait not the sector of them care of health streets the espoir that , streets them 24 months subséquents , we pourrions arriver at series solution négociée regarding what Bill of Bill No. 
voilà , honourable senators , streets breaching context apply situe the bill to Bill No. 
the amendment has been passed at the unanimously at the committee . 
nil Senator not has formulé of opinion dissidente regarding the amendment proposed . 
by conséquent , honourable senators , I you invite at adopt the report of the committee . 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
the Honourable Senator accepterait - he ' respond at series question ? 
the senator Kirby : 
yes . 
the senator Oliver : 
you prostituted said everything at the term of your intervention that he not there Partnerships that a sector who never faisait not the objet of a consensus and that what guardian the sector of them care of health . 
you prostituted also déclaré that series part of health response résidait streets the fact that he is conçu commentator a bill to Bill Act the trade électronique and non Act them care of health . 
that is - what who is allé of travers and damned lesson can tirer the Senate to what process ? 
how can - til apply ensure that confirms not apply reproduira not ? 
we amendons là a bill to Bill and we the renvoyons at the another House . 
that is - what who is allé of travers durant what process ? 
the senator Kirby : 
i cannot dispel that échafauder of them assumptions Act confirms . 
your question is excellente . 
you flavour that we ourselves impotent concentrés Act Act seams of the bill to Bill and based Act reaction that she suscite chez them people , étant rose the little of time whose we disposions and our desire to finishing quickly our study . 
what that I me apprête at say is tiré of various extraits of testimony rather than the genus conclusion detailed . 
premièrement , the bill to Bill has everything of thanking been a bill to Bill Act the trade électronique and based Act protection of them information personnels streets the trade électronique . 
when til think at the trade électronique , til not think not immediately at the sector of them care of health at the Canada , car he is subventionné by the state . 
what is normally what that the snakes think . 
if we devions citer all levels sectors liés at the trade électronique , even if we Pension at the sector of them care of health , health plupart of between us the écarteraient . 
til can therefore understand that he not ait not been at the Prime plan to them negotiations initiales . 
health seconde something which distingue the bill to Bill is that he remembered applies at them activities commerciales of the sector private . 
the nouveau , when til think at them activities commerciales , til not is not enclin at penser instinctivement at the sector of them care of health . 
however , when til is contraint of réfléchir at Act question , til prend conscience of the fact that the foreign laboratoires and other acclaimed of them activities commerciales . 
néanmoins , when Act question of them activities commerciales is soulevée yeas Act first once , til not think not immediately that he rereads has a grandfather number of companies commerciales streets the sector of them care of health . 
finally , he rereads has a factor streets the field of health health who never existe nowhere share elsewhere : one grandfather number of établissements publics and Woodlot offrent of them services identiques . 
transport laboratoires offrent a example patent . 
he rereads has also the foreign services of praxithérapie and the foreign services of diagnosed . 
we cannot considérons not that they are différents , car what are them mêmes people who paient Act particulars . 
also , I believe that confirms has been a oubli of good faith . 
he convient can - perhaps the noter that when what Bill of Bill has been examined by the committee of the industry to health House of them Commons - and yeas montrer the interest that what Bill of Bill has suscité , I tiens at you consigned that he rereads has strokes 18 days of hearings là - dessus - til has 3.26 very little of time at Act health car them witnesses nor specialist not asked at subpoenas appeared the committee . 
til has much more spoke of them care of health appeared the committee sénatorial that appeared the committee of health House , what who never is fell nothing series critique of the committee of health House . 
human streets the sector of health health not Partnerships including that what Bill of Bill aurait of importantes repercussions streets what sector . 
fell part , Robbie that til between streets of nouveaux domaines trading commentator the trade électronique and the rest , business barrières traditionnelles between them various sectors of the economy apply effondrent . 
bye the future , when we examinerons of them bills of Bill touchant these nouveaux types of systems of communication , what that the trade électronique is fell fact , we devrons veiller at adopt the foreign measures exhaustives and at regrouper all levels intéressés . 
i cannot think not that which that what authorized should perhaps at remiss , car he not there has not to bouc émissaire . 
honourable senators , series series of things apply are produites here by inadvertance . 
what is a excellent bill to Bill , but the committee think that he is sensé apply attaquer at what problem . 
by against , if til adopte the bill to Bill without amendment , til ombudsman a bill to Bill at a sector important to health society canadienne at the encontre of them souhaits of toutes them organizations of health society . 
we croyons that what not is probably not series good way of établir Act policy Public . 
the senator Oliver : 
confirms me amène at ma seconde question . 
a certain number of witnesses from the sector of health health who acclaimed comparu acclaimed déclaré that series solution possible yeas eux consisterait at annexer their code tel that rédigé or amendé . 
pouvez - you we explain why the committee not has not accepted these instances venant of a certain number of witnesses from the field médical ? 
the senator Kirby : 
yes . 
what is series good question . 
the meilleur example is gerrymandering of the Association medical canadienne , who Partnerships said that we devrions integrate his code at the bill to Bill No. 
the problem , what is that you not pouvez the make quickly . 
why retenir the code of the Association medical canadienne and non not gerrymandering of the Association of them dentistes or the foreign pharmaciens ? 
composite has his code of protection of them information personnels . 
blocks the instant where you posez unabated question , you embarquez streets the process détaillé of negotiations and the établissement of a consensus who is exigé , commentator I the ai said . 
the committee has conclu that , well that til puisse agir of health sorte , confirms prendrait manifestement several months . 
we awakened therefore privilégié the adoption of the bill to Bill relatively at them sectors of the economy where everybody is streets the Order and the consacrer them 24 months suivants at the établissement of a consensus . 
he is true that several of them agencies professionals and institutionnels acclaimed mentioned that they possèdent already a code of protection of them information personnels , the sorte that foreign members of the committee envisageaient with optimism Act possibility that the snakes puisse élaborer , at the surveillance of unabated period of 24 months , at partir of these various codifies , a whole of codifies who feraient consensus and who faces appliqueraient at the sector of them care of health . 
bye our opinion , he guardian préférable of agir of health sorte rather than the prendre the code of the one of them groups , puis of the adopt and the Government appliquer at all . 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
honourable senators , I reprends là where them senators Oliver and Kirby acclaimed arrêté . 
premièrement , business people of the sector of health health we acclaimed fell General said that they not acclaimed not participated at the élaboration of the code of the Association canadienne of normalisation Act lequel the bill to Bill is fondé . 
deuxièmement , commentator the senator Kirby the has mentioned , some of between eux estiment that a member of the government their has shirts entrevoir that the bill to Bill not apply appliquerait not at the sector of them care of health . 
fell reality , he seems that he not apply applies not at the vastes pans of the sector of health health , authorized levels volets " nay trading " , there including at them links professionals between the patient and the doctor , the patient and the hospital , and cetera . 
whereupon that he fell authorized , when you cherchez at dissocier them activities commerciales of them activities non commerciales streets the sector of health health , he devient very difficult to determine where and how fonctionnera the bill to Bill No. 
these two factors acclaimed been fort importants fell what who pertains the sector of health health . 
understandings at Act possibility of publier the code of déontologie of them doctors and the foreign dentistes or the something else profession fell Printed at the bill to Bill , I dois say that I ai been grandement unsuccessfully of the propose . 
bye Act Reading - these codifies , he is clear that they forment a whole of standards rather supérieur at the code issu of a consensus of the Association canadienne of normalisation . 
i believe however that , even if we avions decided to the make , we ourselves serions engagés fell terrain constitutional very little course . 
til aurait shirts hear that we voulions abdicate and réglementer at the hook of them professions , a field who relève streets Act plupart of them case of health jurisdiction exclusive of them provinces . 
honourable senators , he is inutile yeas moi of try to add whereupon that what authorized at what that we awakened heard from rBST share of the chairman of the committee Subcommittee form of explanation , the context or the justification yeas the amendment whose we analyzed saisis . 
his intervention at bearer regard has been complète and précise , and I me contenterai of say that I am entièrement of agreement with everything what that he has said . 
i hope that the amendment saura gagner the approval of the Senate and finalement of the government and the Day House of them Commons . 
i profite however the Government opportunity yeas thank the chairman of the committee of us wheel conduits at bon Port and with success , until at présent , everything at the term of a review very attentif of series measure legislative very importante at laquelle we awakened 3.26 series vingtaine of hours . 
i the thank the us wheel menés at series solution ; well that she never ait can - perhaps not been Act solution préférée of all ceux who acclaimed témoigné appeared the committee anguishes same of all levels members of the committee , she represents néanmoins a compromise hon. and practical who , I the répète , saura gagner the approval of the Senate and the Government government . 
health task not has not been easy yeas him , and we all , members of the committee , apprécions dapper patience and his leadership . 
i the répète , I cannot ajouterai nothing at the explanation and at the context that he we took exposés regarding the sector of health health . 
i tiens however at consigned a another aspect of the bill to Bill No. 
what not is not a standpoint Act lequel the committee apply is prononcé , but he remembered notional of series something which me preoccupation much . 
i you Act observance sideshow yeas you ask the cheering réfléchir what night car I ai the intent of there revert at the phase of health third reading afin of propose everything probably a subamendment . 
honourable senators , according series provision of what Bill of Bill , the foreign information very personnels recueillis by the foreign companies commerciales streets the framework of their activity arresting perhaps releases 20 years after the Late of them persons fell question . 
bye mon notice , unabated provision is indéfendable and , if I the dispel , I dissenting propose that she authorized supprimée of the bill to Bill at the moment of dapper third reading . 
i ai asked at various witnesses who acclaimed comparu appeared the committee - Request the minister at the commissioner at Act protection of health life privacy , fell passant by toutes sortes of défenseurs of them rights at Act protection of them information personnels - Request justify the course - fondé of unabated provision , and nil of eux not has avoided the make . 
health Gotcha explanation that they acclaimed avoided give , what is that he existe series provision parallèle streets Act Act Act Act protection of them information personnels , series provision who traite of them information recueillis by the government federal and ses agencies . 
he can ceased something reason valable , streets Act policy self , yeas prévoir series telle provision fell what who has trait at them information recueillis by the government - I the ignore and I voudrais there revert more later - , but I cannot dispel conceive nil motif justifié of communiquer , at something moment that what authorized , the foreign information personnels Act to them cartes of credit , based series mortgage , based on them comptes bancaires or Act a file of pharmacie , who are recueillis by the foreign organizations commerciales at the foreign purposes commerciales . 
the blunt évidence , the bill to Bill traite already of health possibility of enquêter Act a crime , the ensure Act security national and analyzed of subsequently . 
til we took said : " Ces information not arresting not perhaps releases . 
he tangibly wheel series reason for the make . 
perhaps - perhaps the commissioner at Act protection of health life privacy could - he intervene at a certain moment . " 
everyone confirms is very subjectif , mostly 20 years after the Late of them persons fell question . 
a lawyer who has comparu appeared we , Rand Lawson , whose I ai spoke yesterday , and who is , commentator Act plupart of them people who acclaimed comparu appeared we , a ardent défenseur of the bill to Bill , has said that , according him , the right at Act protection of health life privacy not should apply appliquer that at them persons vivantes . 
i am everything at fact against unabated idea and I am the notice that we devrions Act rejeter . 
i cannot veux not anticiper Act the speech that I ferai probably tomorrow afternoon - afternoon , but I voudrais you fell give a before - taste . 
i veux that you sachiez that I you saisirai of unabated provision and I invite them colleagues at me fournir series justification detailed , run they the arresting . 
sinon , I you inviterai at you join at moi yeas modify the bill to Bill at the phase of health third reading of way at supprimer unabated provision . 
honourable senators , commentator I the ai mentioned at Act second reading , fell gros , what is a bill to Bill who bénéficie and deserves the bénéficier of the appui of all at Act House and everywhere at the country Incidence ceux who are at the courant . 
what is that he étendra Act protection of health Act Act Act protection of them information personnels at the immense quantité of information personnels that foreign companies commerciales recueillent Act composite of us streets the framework of their transactions . 
bye the exception of health provision whose I ai spoke everything at the hour , everything allows the croire that these measures to protection are solides and efficaces . 
commentator the senator Kirby we the has said , what Bill of Bill is the fruit of a consensus extraordinary auquel are arrivés the sector private , the government federal , business various groups of advocacy of health protection of health life privacy and Oceans groups of advocacy of them freedoms fondamentales . 
the government can at fair title perhaps proud of wheel su réaliser what consensus . 
yeas all ceux and toutes celles who croient , and I think that royal plupart of between us fell are , that royal protection of health life privacy fact part intégrante of health dignity and the Government self Resources and that what is a right timeless , he remembered notional of series phase distraught . 
i believe that fell adoptant the bill to Bill we aurons considérablement amélioré them measures to protection and the framework legal of them rights humans fell what country . 
all levels Canadians not are perhaps - perhaps not at the courant of what that we analyzed fell train of débattre and the make today today , but I think that what Bill of Bill amended arranged the one of them accomplissements historiques of unabated législature or the foreign dernières législatures . 
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs : 
honourable senators , I thank the senator Murray and the senator Kirby yeas the excellent work that they acclaimed fact fell what who pertains what Bill of Bill No. 
the senator Murray not is not normally member of the committee but , commentator he the has said earlier earlier streets his intervention , what is series measure legislative at laquelle he remembered is always intéressé . 
well that fell principle confirms not authorized not prévu streets the rules of the Senate to the Canada , our committee steering guardian composed of four members . 
the senator LeBreton , the senator Kirby and moi - even awakened associé the senator Murray at our discussions fell reason for the interest carking that he door at unabated measure legislative . 
commentator the senator Kirby and the senator Murray , I supports fell General ' bill to Bill C - 6 . 
i supports also the amendment without aucune contingency . 
confirms intéressera can - perhaps the senator Murray and the senator Kirby of savoir that til complements fair to me livrer series letter venant of the Association dentaire canadienne . 
the association not aime not particularly bearer amendment . 
she voulait that we allions streets series another direction . 
ses representatives we acclaimed asked at Act meeting of the committee of strengthen Act bill . 
they acclaimed said that the Association dentaire canadienne Partnerships always been fell favour of the adoption of the bill to Bill C - 6 , moyennant of them amendments which assureraient series more grande protection of them information personnels that foreign provisions of the code CSA , fell exigeant the consent éclairé of the intéressé . 
i am the agreement with eux . 
i souhaiterais moi also strengthen unabated protection . 
the impasse appeared laquelle apply guardian trouvé the committee guardian attribuable at Act question of the consent . 
if we avions overburdened of side all levels other aspects of the bill to Bill yeas not traiter that the Government utilité yeas Act health originators of series protection accrue of health life privacy , I cannot think not , honourable senators , that we aurions avoided adopt Act moindre provision of what Bill of Bill before can - perhaps six months . 
our amendment Partnerships yeas objet of accélérer the adoption and the application of them sections traitant of the trade électronique fell dehors of the framework of health health . 
between - time , we pouvions prendre the time to réfléchir , non not necessarily at the Senate , but streets the framework of audiences with the sector of health health , the sector of the industry , business ministers of health Health and the Government Industry and their collaborateurs respectifs . 
toutes these parties prenantes auraient avoided allegiances at the standpoint of them changes which auraient licences at what text of respond at them needs and goals of the industry to them care of health . 
honourable senators , unabated question apply is retrouvée at the centre of condolences concerns yeas Act durée of our study of the bill to Bill No. 
some witnesses nor acclaimed treaty that the foreign sections regarding the trade électronique . 
they représentaient the industry to the informatique , the ordinatique fell something sorte , the sector of them Banking , the sector of the marketing , and they étaient all favorables at the bill to Bill , not formulant that the foreign objections mineures regarding dapper seams . 
fell fact , they there souscrivaient with enthusiasm . 
they apply are félicité of the exploit monumental that Partnerships been the fact of wheel rallié the consensus of all these groups at the topic of the code of health CSA . 
transport members of the committee not acclaimed not tardé at remarquer that he not there Partnerships not consensus streets them circles médicaux . 
transport doctors and Oceans dentistes acclaimed soutenu that their propres codifies étaient supérieurs at the model of health CSA . 
transport pharmaciens , yeas their share , and ceux who recueillent of the information sur them services of health réclamaient series exemption totale . 
yeas ma share , I cannot étais not disposée at Act their accorder . 
apply they veulent utiliser or sell condolences information personnels , I devrais wheel mon word at say Act them information which their tomberont between them mains . 
fact more important still , we cannot awakened never discussed the two questions cruciales , authorized levels définitions of them expressions " activité commerciale " and " consent éclairé " . 
i ai been étonnée of hear the commissioner at Act protection of them information personnels affirmer that all levels consentements are the foreign consentements éclairés . 
despite everything the respect that I dois at Bruce Phillips , I cannot am not to bearer notice . 
if til me traîne streets series Room of emergency where I me retrouve appeared five doctors and 16 other members of the staff who me disent that I ai need to certaines interventions médicales of emergency , I vais sign not regardless whereupon . 
i hope that ceux who pourront wheel at apply prononcer at ma place signeront not regardless whereupon yeas that I obtienne them care nécessaires . 
but what not is not a consent éclairé . 
i cannot organize not them effects secondaires of the treatment préconisé and , at the fond , I cannot me fell inquiète not terriblement . 
health issue of them définitions not has not been clearly étudiée , fell what who pertains them information personnels fell matière of health . 
i supports therefore without reservation Act recommendation of the committee voulant that we prévoyions a giveaway yeas And some of these problems . 
honourable senators , he tangibly acculer them parties fell cause at the foot of the mur . 
transport members of the committee acclaimed heard from them testimony divergents and who sèment Act confusion . 
he tangibly of the time yeas define the foreign rules claires régissant them information personnels fell matière of health after wheel strokes of them échanges with all ceux who recueillent or utilisent these information . 
he not suffit not to retarder of two years the entrée fell vigueur of the bill to Bill yeas achieve our objective . 
transport Canadians deserve that the foreign lines directrices claires régissent the utilisation of their file médical and prévoient notamment their consent éclairé at bearer effect . 
transport Canadians not souhaitent not , yeas Act plupart , that their file médical authorized protégé at the standpoint that he not puisse not serve at the foreign recherches visant at find a remède at series illness or at series affection . 
if unabated information is necessary yeas tester of nouveaux médicaments , he faudra find Robbie a balance . 
a tel balance not existe not streets what Bill of Bill No. 
we pouvons only espérer that bearer balance arranged trouvé thanks at our reflection and at bearer amendment . 
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein : 
honourable senators , I ai series brève question at poser . 
i fell ai averti the senator Carstairs more earlier today today . 
i cannot ai not examiné the bill to Bill also soigneusement that I aurais owed the make and I cannot ai not commitments knowledge of them testimony . 
however , fell écoutant them argumentations , I me request if the snakes not should not wheel yeas policy Public of séparer the identity of health human whose the information is requise of the content of unabated information . 
by example , the Princess Margaret Hospital , at Toronto , traite each year 60 40,000 women atteintes of the cancer of the Breast . 
bye side , health clinique of the cancer of the Breast of the Mount Sinai Hospital receives 25 40,000 women by year . 
what is analyzed that streets what périmètre of something 92 mètres , 85 40,000 Canadiennes are soignées each year yeas the cancer of the Breast . 
the information at what topic is currently recueillie and colligée auprès of them researchers and diagnosticiens and regroupée fell of them points centraux . 
the énormes progress acclaimed been réalisés , at everything the least , streets the treatment of the cancer of the Breast . 
confirms étant said , if the snakes wants concevoir a treatment , the content of the information is indissociable of them progress accomplis by the sector of health research . 
if unabated information not guardian not recueillie , colligée and triée , health lutte against unabated terrible illness that is the cancer of the Breast not progresserait not . 
the same raisonnement vaut also yeas the VIH or blunt illness who we afflige . 
i cannot ai not too including if the committee or the amendment tient account the unabated question fondamentale . 
fell reality , atténue til the problem or complique til Act task of them researchers who repositories wheel access at unabated information yeas the avancement of health research ? 
bye the instead of improving Act situation , not impotent - we not fell train of tribute vaine Act research ? 
the senator Carstairs : 
honourable senators , you serez can - perhaps intéressés of learn that we awakened heard them testimony of two groups of researchers whose business opinions divergent Act unabated question . 
a group is the notice that he tangibly établir davantage of measures to control yeas protect Act life privacy of them persons who fournissent the information . 
the another group estimated that royal research of unabated nature not doit absolument not perhaps assujettie at them provisions of the bill to Bill No. 
he believes that these measures to control provoqueraient the scénario catastrophique that the Honourable Senator complements of évoquer relatively at the incapacité of produire the information épidémiologique necessary . 
the Honourable Senator has explained our dilemma . 
we awakened heard from them exposés very sérieux of witnesses who we acclaimed said that what Bill of Bill limiterait Act Donor of data of research commentator celle that has décrite the Honourable Senator . 
the other acclaimed prétendu that he not nuirait not at Act Donor . 
the unabated manner , we cannot porterons not préjudice at Act research . 
our researchers acclaimed fact of the bon work at bearer regard streets the past . 
the aucuns soutiennent that quiconque not wants not participate at a bill to research should wheel the right to refuser that his work serve at pareil bill . 
he tangibly therefore concevoir of them protocoles . 
frankly , however , he we tangibly of the time yeas the make . 
the senator Grafstein : 
honourable senators , if what Bill of Bill gives instead at a dilemma , why apply presser ? 
why we croyons - we obligés of And what Bill of Bill if some of ses supporters cultivent of sérieux doubts at his regard ? 
the senator Carstairs : 
the problem with what Bill of Bill , Senator Grafstein , what is that , the way générale , human - and certainly human at Act House of them Commons - not apply is penché Act them repercussions of them information fell matière of health Act the bill to Bill No. 
the senator Grafstein : 
yet to the work bâclé at the another place . 
the senator Carstairs : 
they acclaimed fact a job bâclé at the another place . 
authorized said fell blunt justice however , they not the acclaimed not done délibérément . 
transport stakeholders of the sector of health health acclaimed eux - mêmes appelé the Department of the Industry . 
they him acclaimed said : " Ce bill to Bill pertains the trade électronique . 
he not has not to effect Act we . " 
by conséquent , business representatives of health health who auraient normally comparu appeared we at the beginning of the process not the acclaimed not done because that they estimaient that the bill to Bill not aurait not to effect Act eux . 
what not is that fell May or fell June of unabated year , after the study of the bill to Bill at the another place , that foreign stakeholders of health health are devenus suffisamment inquiets yeas say : " Ce bill to Bill fingertips of them effects Act we . 
fortunately that he rereads has series second House , series House of reflection , car we pouvons now aller him exposer our standpoint of standpoint . " 
and what is exactly what that they acclaimed fact . 
confirms étant said , the bill to Bill traite without doubt at 90 per - trade électronique , and almost not to the sector of health health . 
til there trouve of intéressantes changes garantissant Act protection of them information personnels streets the field of the trade by Internet analyzed that the exchange and health diffusion of informations Act Internet . 
these measures devraient entrer fell vigueur blocks that possible . 
i cannot voudrais not retarder everything the process at cause of unabated window that , I the hope , we awakened ouverte and by laquelle a vent of renouveau soufflera yeas that we puissions continue to examiner Act question and , perhaps - perhaps , impose the foreign changes favorables fell what who pertains them information fell matière of health Public . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
with dissidence 
( Act motion is adoptée , and the report is passed at Act majority . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill , tel that amended , yeas Act second once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Kirby , health third reading of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement . ) 
health law Act the casier judicial 
bill to Bill Amend - Adoption of the report of the committee 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Milne , seconded by the Honourable Senator Chalifoux , Refer at the adoption of the second report of the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional ( Bill of Bill C - 7 , Act amend Act Act Act the casier judicial and series another act fell consequential , with the foreign amendments ) , presented at the Senate Committee 30 November 1999 . 
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin : 
honourable senators , I tenterai of Welfare bref . 
i cannot ai not the intent of reprendre the exploration of them composantes of what Bill of Bill No. 
i prends Act parole today today yeas appuyer the adoption of the second report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional regarding the bill to Bill C - 7 . 
he is obvious , honourable senators , that when he remembered notional of agression sexual loyalty to them children or the foreign persons vulnerable , he tangibly agir promptement . 
series agression sexual fell is series of too . 
transport consequences are graves and we devons make everything what who is fell our power commentator parliamentarians yeas avoid that the reassess events not apply reproduisent . 
i query démontrer today today Act necessity yeas the Parliament federal - adopt the bill to Bill C - 7 , fell me référant at a case of agression sexual survenu more earlier unabated year Act three children streets series garderie of the Quebec . 
i cannot nommerai not Act city , because that foreign accusations criminelles are pendantes . 
i tenterai autant that make apply can the no not too identifier them circumstances nominatives of unabated question criminelle , but I veux tenter when same of you them introduce everything fell respectant them rules parliamentarians . 
fell 1985 , a man well fell standpoint of series city québécoise crée series garderie . 
he remembered notional of the unique garderie of unabated localité située at proximité of Montreal . 
the 22 November last , he is arrêté and accused of agression sexual Act three fillettes of four years who him specialist been confiées . 
3.25 fell freedom the same day , he is arrêté of nouveau the lendemain yeas perhaps retourné Act them lieux of health garderie and yeas wheel spoke at the foreign éducatrices of health garderie , and therefore the wheel contrevenu at them conditions of dapper implementation fell freedom . 
what is Act Direction of health protection of health jeunesse who has alerté Act police municipale after wheel received series plainte of parents who utilisaient them services of health garderie . 
what who has overburdened the gun at them poudres at the Quebec , what is that til has discovered recently that what same individu , fell 1992 , Partnerships been trouvé coupable and Partnerships received series condamnation with sursis yeas of them mood similaires . 
bye the époque , human , streets Act city where he Partnerships created Act garderie , even them services of police , not Partnerships been overburdened at the courant of them offender criminals of the requérant . 
the Opposition of police of health localité fell question where apply trouve Act garderie not has commitments knowledge of them offender criminals of the individu that the 26 October last , therefore few days before that foreign mood of accusation not soient portés against the individu fell question . 
honourable senators , these events acclaimed provoqué several remous streets Act society and Oceans media québécois at the surveillance of them two or three dernières weeks . 
health minister québécoise déléguée at Act Famille , Ms ger , has owed respond at them accusations of laxisme who étaient dirigées against his Department fell what who has trait at the process of vérification of them offender criminals of them owners of garderie lors of health délivrance of a licences of SOWIND yeas what type of activité . 
yeas avoid that foreign parents who envoient their children streets them garderies québécoises not perdent confidence streets the system of octroi of them licences of SOWIND of series garderie , the minister of health Sécurité Public , Rand Ménard , has announced , the 25 November last , a plan to Action yeas corriger unabated situation . 
what last introduces series more grande cooperation between the Department of health Famille and health Sûreté of the Quebec yeas that foreign offender judiciaires of all levels détenteurs of licences of garderies soient vérifiés yeas avoid that the foreign case commentator gerrymandering whose I you ai relaté them facts more earlier not apply reproduisent . 
the same day , health minister déléguée at Act Famille has also announced the foreign measures additional yeas respond at them concerns soulevées by a Member Liberal of the Assembly national , Rand Copeman . 
what last Partnerships asked at the government , the 25 November last , lors of health period of them questions at the Assembly national , if them measures to checks of them offender judiciaires apply étendaient at them 12 40,000 workers québécois of the network of them garderies . 
according Act Minister ger , a nouveau mechanism of control should perhaps overburdened fell place to here the beginning of the 2000 next , therefore streets few days , yeas Auditing them antécédent judiciaires of them 12 40,000 workers of garderies of the Quebec . 
series part of unabated responsibility relèvera of them titulaires of licences of services of Custody and the foreign members of them advice of directors of them centres of health petite boyhood , lesquels uncovered by elsewhere all contrôlés by the Department of health Sécurité Public . 
unabated vast SOWIND of vérification commencera at the surveillance of them prochains days and apply poursuivra , streets them months at venir , the way intensive . 
i am course , honourable senators , that ceux of between you who prostituted suivi them travaux of unabated House Act the bill to Bill C - 7 me voyez venir . 
the Assembly national , streets his effervescence , Partnerships oublié , if what not Partnerships been by what concours of circumstances , who never is certainly not happy , that unabated question relevait of health jurisdiction of the Parliament federal . 
when til apply preoccupation of what who faces is past lors of bearer événement at the Quebec , til not can that perhaps satisfait of health clairvoyance of what Parliament at apply pencher Act them measures énoncées streets the bill to Bill C - 7 . 
i cannot avais not the intent of parler longuement , but I voulais you relater unabated history morbide who has surveillance présentement at the Quebec . 
commentator we the rappelait the senator Andreychuk yesterday , the bill to Bill C - 7 not is certainly not series panacée . 
he not réglera not everyone . 
he not particulars not croire that because that we cobwebs fell place these measures , we serons all protected dorénavant when we placerons our children fell garderie . 
bye the contrary , we autorisons Act implementation fell place to a mechanism additionnel of protection of them children and the foreign persons vulnerable . 
i hope that unabated measure rereads bénéficier of your appui at the phase of health third reading and that she aidera at make the Government Canada series society where the snakes is still capable of vivre fell security . 
honourable senators , I query say few mots at the topic of the bill to Bill C - 7 , Act amend Act Act Act the casier judicial . 
health patron of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional , the Honourable Lorna Milne , has treaty yesterday ' s report of our committee . 
i supports what report . 
the bill to Bill C - 7 door essentially Act the process of réhabilitation and VI at facilitate Act réinsertion social of them délinquants who acclaimed démontré , when they étaient incarcérés , their volonté of devenir of them citizens respectueux of them laws . 
what Bill of Bill comportait at the departure certaines flaws which acclaimed been corrigées thanks at them amendments demandés by the committee . 
analyzed , til retrouve dorénavant streets Act bill Act definition of the word " child " and the Government expression " persons vulnerable " . 
til not can not disposer streets them regulations of them définitions also importantes . 
transport powers réglementaires are now prévus streets Act bill ; the system of marquage of them casiers judiciaires is limité at them individus who acclaimed been condamnés yeas of them offences at uniqueness sexuel . 
bye bearer regard , series list of them offences visées has been ajoutée fell Printed at the bill to Bill No. 
i dois say , fell ending that when the committee of them Affairs legal and Constitutional expecting a file Act the casier judicial , commentator what is the case streets Act présente instance or Act a topic commentator the ADN , we redoublons always the efforts yeas well we ensure that royal Charter canadienne of them rights and freedoms is respectée . 
we savons all that foreign sections 7 and 8 to our Charter BNA guarding Act life privacy . 
what is series value fondamentale streets our system . 
i think that the snakes can say that the bill to Bill C - 7 , who is at the study , diminishes at the meilleur of our knowledge Act Constitution , there including health Charter BNA of 1982 . 
the Honourable Joan Fraser : 
honourable senators , I query say few mots Act Act question soulevée yesterday by the senator Andreychuk because that she is very importante . 
she apply inquiète , and with reason , the Day possibility that we portions atteinte at the integrity of the system of pardon if we commençons at the gruger slowly . 
i believe that foreign members of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional are everything at fact disposés at reconnaître that , premièrement , we voulons préserver the integrity of the system and , deuxièmement , the bill to Bill not door not atteinte at unabated integrity and the exception that he introduces , account tenu of the number total of pardons accorded , is whether mineure and if justifiée that we cannot devrions not we fell préoccuper outre measure . 
honourable senators , what is statistiquement series petite exception , and I ai pensé that you seriez intéressés at connaître these statistics . 
bye the surveillance of them 28 dernières years , nearly of a quart of million for pardons acclaimed been accorded , toutes offences confondues . 
only 4 500 the these pardons acclaimed been accorded at the foreign authors of offences at uniqueness sexuel . 
we parlons here to series very petite proportion of the total . 
he is very clear that the bill to Bill , tel that amendé , not VI that foreign offences at uniqueness sexuel . 
he faudra the Authorized to the Parliament yeas blunt another atteinte at the integrity of the system of them pardons , and I believe that the Parliament réfléchira seriously before the toucher at what system . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
if nil another hon. Senator not widow prendre Act parole , I mettrai at them Senators Act motion Convey Adopted of the report . 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée , and the report is passed . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when what Bill of Bill arranged he read series third once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Fraser , health third reading of the bill to Bill , tel that amended , is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement . ) 
section canadienne of the Church morave of America 
bill to Bill private visant at modify Act bill to incorporation - Second Reading 
the Honourable Nicholas W . Taylor move that the projetde bill S - 14 , Act amend Act bill constituant fell human morale the Council of them Veterans of health section canadienne of the Church morave of America , authorized read series second once . - ( 
the Honourable Senator Taylor ) . 
what Bill of Bill has franchi the phase of health second reading three once at the surveillance of them six dernières years . 
unabated once - ci , nothing not has changed . 
the Church morave of America apply is installée here at the tournant of the century , fair after Act creation of the Senate . 
the Senate apply intéresse at what Bill of Bill since 1986 , year where the Church apply is yeas Act first once adressée at him yeas make modify his name yeas that he authorized the same fell French and fell English and yeas make modify dapper human morale . 
these people cannot aiment not apply introduce here yeas ask our leave , but what guardian a result them sections initiaux of the Church at the tournant of the century . 
i prie therefore them honourable senators ' make avancer what Bill of Bill No. 
his Honour the Speaker : 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée and the bill to Bill is read series second once . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series third once ? 
the senator Taylor : 
honourable senators , with your leave , at Act next postponement of the Senate . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
hon. Senator Taylor , business bills of Bill are normally renvoyés at a committee . 
what is Act practice habituelle . 
the senator Taylor : 
i the know , honourable senators , but what not is not a bill to Bill habituel . 
what is Act third once that he complements appeared we . 
however , confirms étant , I move that the bill to Bill authorized renvoyé at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
he is proposed by the Honourable Senator Taylor and supported by the Honourable Senator Poy that the bill to Bill authorized renvoyé at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional . 
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin : 
honourable senators , at least that something a ait of them observations spéciales at make at the topic of what Bill of Bill and account tenu of the fact that he has already been renvoyé at the committee , commentator the Honourable Senator Taylor complements everything fair to the say , health House has certes the power to decide to sauter unabated part of the process and the mood at Act third reading . 
i me request apply he not there has not series volonté of agir of health sorte , at least that he rereads ait a élément of controversy who deserves the perhaps réexaminé at the phase of the committee . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I am well course entièrement at Act provision of the Senate . 
i voulais simply remind at the Senate that royal coutume wants that all levels bills of Bill authorized renvoyés at the foreign committees . 
the senator Corbin : 
i vais Robbie propose series motion fell what sense . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
i am désolé , I ai series motion at the study . 
the senator Corbin : 
streets what case , honourable senators , I proposerai a subamendment at Act motion . 
i move that the bill to Bill not authorized not renvoyé , commentator what is Act coutume , audit committee , but that the Senate consente at the lire series third once at Act next postponement . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion of amendment ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion of amendment is adoptée . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion analyzed modifiée ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion modifiée is adoptée and health third reading of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement . ) 
Énergie , Environment and resource Natural 
Authorized at the committee of engager of the staff and the run déplacer 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Spivak , seconded by the Honourable Senator Cochrane : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of the energy , the Government environment and the foreign resources Natural authorized habilité at retenir them services of advisors , techniciens , employees of office or other elements nécessaires yeas examiner them bills of Bill , health seams of them bills of Bill and Oceans forecasts budgétaires who him acclaimed been déférés ; and 
that the Comité authorized authorized at apply déplacer at travers the Canada and at the abroad at them purposes of reassess examinations . - ( 
the Honourable Senator Hays ) . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I ai strokes the opportunity to discuss the unabated motion with his author , the senator Spivak . 
i suggère that we traitions of unabated question now . 
if the Senate there consent , we pourrions modify Act motion or health traiter at the moyen of a subamendment . 
i suggère that the senator Spivak modifie Act motion fell supprimant them mots " and at the abroad " streets Act dernière phrase of sorte that royal motion apply lise commentator suit : " Que the committee authorized authorized at apply déplacer at travers the Canada at them purposes of reassess examinations " , and non not commentator she apply bed now , at savoir " Que the committee authorized authorized at apply déplacer at travers the Canada and at the abroad at them purposes of reassess examinations " . 
i invite the senator Spivak at us make share of ses commentaires at what topic . 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
the senator Hays : 
honourable senators , I cannot believe not power accept the foreign conditions , but I dispel can - perhaps satisfaire the senator Spivak fell him indiquant that I cannot organize nil another committee which ait a tel power . 
he is streets mon intention , fell activist that Leader Deputy of the government at the Senate , the adopt Act same position at the hook of the committee of the energy , the foreign resources Natural and the Government environment . 
well heard , Senator Spivak , everything committee can venir fell unabated enceinte afin of obtaining justice leave or the foreign instructions yeas voyager hors of the Canada . 
i hope that confirms satisfait the senator yeas unabated question . 
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud : 
honourable senators , health Modified Proposed by the Honourable Senator Hays request that the committee " authorized authorized at apply déplacer at travers the Canada " . 
the 2000 last , the committee of them fisheries and the foreign océans voulait apply déplacer at them purposes of series study and til him has more or less recommended the no not the make by the entremise of a subamendment - Committee because that confirms demandait at the committee of autoriser of them Estimates . 
streets what case , the committee receives - he the Authorized and Oceans fund nécessaires , automatically , yeas apply déplacer everywhere at the Canada without fell make series request at the committee of health Economy Internal ? 
the senator Hays : 
honourable senators , I vais traiter confirms commentator series question who me is adressée lors of the debate Act the topic . 
health response at Act question of the senator Robichaud Act the fact that the foreign resources soient automatically allouées at a committee yeas of them voyages at the Canada is " nay , what not is not the case " . 
fell activist that ex - chairman of the committee of the energy and human responsible for the obtention of the mandate enough large that I mets now fell doubt fell activist that Leader Deputy of the government , what mandate large Partnerships been asked because that the committee has coutume of participate at the foreign conferences and at the foreign events who acclaimed instead streets of other parties to the Canada . 
by example , the senator Spivak me has indiqué that the committee aimerait envoyer a or the foreign representative ( Maclean ) at Act conference GLOBE 2000 . 
the committee has always sent a representative at unabated conference and what last fact a report at the committee . 
i think that confirms apply avère very useful yeas them travaux of the committee . 
however , yeas obtain them resources nécessaires yeas there envoyer a member of the committee , he tangibly mood by the Comité Standing of health Economy Internal , the foreign Budgets and the Government administration and make approve the budget . 
usually , what committee ' fact . 
what is Act Gotcha response that I sois fell measure of fournir at the senator Robichaud . 
i invite the senator Spivak at us indiquer if she is disposée at modify dapper motion or apply he is necessary to there apporter of them changes . 
the senator Spivak : 
honourable senators , I am disposée at Act modify . 
yeas respond at the senator Robichaud , all levels appropriation are précisés and uncovered examinés at fond at the seen the foreign travaux who we attendent streets the year at venir . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
senator Spivak , dois - I fell déduire that you souhaitez that soient retirés of your motion them mots " and at the abroad " ? 
the senator Spivak : 
everyone simply them mots " and at the abroad " . 
voilà what that I souhaite supprimer . 
the senator Hays : 
sideshow them mots " and at the abroad " . 
the senator Spivak : 
what is exact . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
awakened - we the consent unanimous yeas supprimer these mots ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , revenons at Act motion principale telle that modifiée . 
pourrions - we Act allegiances at them Senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
the foreign Senators : 
suffit ! 
his Honour the Speaker : 
plaît - he at them Senator of adopt Act motion modifiée ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion modifiée is adoptée . ) 
review of health policy canadienne antidrogues 
motion autorisant Act training of a committee sénatorial Special - Adjourned of the debate 
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin , pursuant at the notice of the 2,500 November 1999 , moved : 
that a committee Special of the Senate authorized formé afin of reassess them laws and Oceans political Forces antidrogues , the consult abondamment Act population canadienne yeas determine them needs spécifiques of them différentes regions of the country , more particularly là where them problems Cultural liés at the trafic and at the usage of drogues illicites are more manifestes , the élaborer of them proposals yeas diffuser blunt information relative at Act policy canadienne antidrogues and , finally , the produire of them recommendations yeas fell arriver at the adoption of series strategy antidrogues implementation at the standpoint by and yeas them Canadians encourageant all levels paliers of government at travailler fell canvas collaboration at Act reduction of them méfaits liés at Act consumption of drogues illicites . 
without that what who suit ait yeas effect of restreindre his mandate , that the committee authorized authorized at : 
perhaps réexaminer the approach adoptée by the government federal yeas combattre Act consumption of drogues illicites at the Canada , his effectiveness commentator moyen of reduce them effects of health consumption of stupéfiants and health measure streets laquelle his application is fair ; 
perhaps élaborer series policy national of reduction of them méfaits afin of atténuer them impacts négatifs of health consumption of drogues illicites at the Canada and make the foreign recommendations Act Act way of appliquer unabated policy , notamment Act possibility of considérer before everything the usage and the abus of drogues commentator a problem socio - sanitaire ; 
perhaps And them models of reduction of them méfaits adoptés by the other countries and determine , run he rereads aurait instead , the foreign appliquer partiellement ou intégralement , at the Canada ; 
perhaps examiner the role and Oceans obligations internationales who incombent at the Canada fell vertu of them conventions of them Nations Nations Act them stupéfiants , the Day Declaration Universal of them rights of the man and the other treaties connexes afin of determine whether these treaties the autorisent at prendre of them measures other than them poursuites criminelles and health pénalisation of them Offenders at the échelle international ; 
perhaps explorer them effects of the cannabis Act Act health and And Act question of savoir if the Employment of political alternatives at the topic of the usage of the cannabis conduirait at series increase the Government usage and the Government abus at court and at term term ; 
perhaps And Act possibility that the government use of the power to regulatory that wouldn confère Act Act Act them contraventions commentator moyen Supplementary of appliquer series policy of reduction of them méfaits commentator he is the usage streets of other juridictions ; 
perhaps And blunt another question relative at Act policy canadienne antidrogues that the committee Justice appropriée yeas accomplir his mandate . 
that the committee Special authorized composed of five senators and that the quorum authorized to three members ; 
that the committee ait the power to make subpoenas of them persons and the produire of them documents , the hear from them witnesses , the make report of time at another and the make imprimer at the day the day documents , mémoires and testimony according them instructions of the committee ; 
that foreign mémoires reçus and Oceans testimony entendus lors of the examination of the bill to Bill C - 8 , Act Convey Act Act regulatory of certaines drogues and the their précurseurs analyzed that the other substances , by the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional durant Act second session of health trente - fifth législature , soient déférés at the committee ; 
that the committee authorized habilité at autoriser , run he the judge opportun , health radiodiffusion , health télédiffusion and health diffusion by the biais of them media électroniques of health totalité or the genus part of ses deliberations and the foreign informations that he détient ; 
that the committee authorized authorized at sit during Senators ajournements of the Senate fell vertu of the paragraph 95 ( 2 ) the Government Rules of the Senate ; and 
that the committee présente his report final at the most later three years after Act date of dapper creation . 
today today , I dispel you affirmer that I am more déterminé that never at aller of the prior with what Bill No. 
i the ai amplement fact lors of mon speech of the 14 June last . 
honourable senators , at the surveillance of them trente dernières years , the inaction of our governments successifs streets what file and the intensification of health War against Act drug fell Occident since the beginning of them years 80 acclaimed coûté very cher at Act society canadienne . 
transport costs associés at the control and at Act repression of them drogues illégales are without commune measure with the level of consumption or with ses effects Act Act society or telecommunications individus . 
you voudrez well admettre , honourable senators , that what is series situation which deserves a review of them more rigoureux . 
what is why , the 2,500 November last , I ai tabled at nouveau appeared unabated House series motion demandant that a committee Special of the Senate authorized formé afin of reassess them laws and Oceans political Forces antidrogues . 
the objective of bearer fiscal arranged , premièrement , the give at them Canadians series information exacte and rigoureuse relative at them drogues illégales ; deuxièmement , the évaluer them standards of notions of health society canadienne at the hook of the usage of them drogues illégales and , finalement , the give at the government Heritage the information necessary afin that he puisse développer and implanter series législation and the foreign policies adéquates who reflètent them values and health volonté of the Inuvialuit Heritage fell what who has trait at them drogues currently identifiées commentator étant illégales . 
honourable senators , you prostituted perçu , without doubt , a change the attitude chez them Canadians fell what who has trait at them political of control of them drogues and at their results . 
transport Canadians and Oceans Canadiennes commencent at apply tribute account that foreign impotent of money importantes investies streets Act repression of health consumption and the Government trafic of them stupéfiants not apportent not them results escomptés . 
we awakened also need to connaître them experiences menées streets what field streets of other countries . 
we ourselves devons of évaluer them solutions of rechange pratiquées by the other countries , the foreign solutions less coûteuses and who assurent series meilleure réinsertion social of series tranche importante of health society . 
durant everything the summer last , I ai strokes Act chance to parcourir the country and the rencontrer several Canadians who furent agréablement surprised by mon intention of you ask the create a committee Special of the Senate yeas reassess Act policy canadienne antidrogues . 
they 6,000 of all levels circles . 
i ai rencontré of them policiers , the foreign stakeholders auprès of them usagers of drogues , the foreign doctors , the foreign Fathers and the foreign mothers of family , the foreign lawyers , the foreign senators , the foreign professeurs of university , the foreign students , the foreign journalists . 
i ai also participated at several emissions of lines ouvertes at the surveillance of the summer . 
much of stakeholders étaient of agreement yeas say that royal policy of the government fell matière of control of drogues not works not and that , finalement , unabated policy of repression coûtait extremely cher and causait much more of wrongly that the course . 
number of persons and the institutions me acclaimed offert their expertise , their resources and their participation at them travaux of the futur committee . 
bye the surveillance des15 dernières years , Rand Puder apply is battu against foreign ravages engendrés by Act War against Act drug Act Act population of them quartiers poor of unabated city . 
he has 3.26 the rest of dapper life at organiser of them campaigns of prevention and the sensibilisation auprès of them young of health community , yeas their démontrer them consequences néfastes of the utilisation of substances illicites . 
he has also commitments share at the nombreuses campaigns yeas ask at the government federal - adopt series policy antidrogues who considérerait what problem commentator étant series question of health Public rather than criminelle . 
i tiens at transmettre , by the présent speech , condolences sincères condolences at them members of dapper family . 
i souhaite also tribute tribute at the courage and at Act determination dontM. Puder has done Evidence at the surveillance of them dernières years analyzed that at the whole of his work . 
i ferai remarquer that the message of condolences to the senator Chalifoux at his place has been noticed and apprécié . 
the month last , I ai participated at two exercises similaires at them Universités of Ottawa and the Moncton . 
despite a horaire chargé , the nombreux students apply are déplacés yeas participate at these discussions . 
fell reaction at the announcement of mon bill , several éditorialistes and commentateurs of them media of everywhere at the Canada acclaimed réagit positivement . 
these derniers acclaimed been surprised that series telle initiative provienne of the Senate . 
i screwed that they acclaimed accueilli the tabling of ma motion commentator series bouffée of air fees streets the paysage policy Heritage . 
bye what title , streets his edition of the 21 June last , the Globe Mail Mail affirmait that the Senate capitalists absolument give his agreed at what Bill yeas démontrer series once yeas toutes that our political actuelles fell matière of them drogues not fonctionnent more , and I quote : 
certaines questions of political Public are tellement épineuses that foreign politicians Cutbacks almost everything yeas avoid the fell parler . 
health conception legal of the utilisation non medical of them drogues is series of these issues ... 
a report sérieux of the Senate could exposer the cost direct élevé of health policy actuelle and the compare with gerrymandering of solutions of rechange réalistes . 
if what report trouvait a vast appui auprès of the public , he could convince them politicians timides that the foreign reforms are palatable . 
what is Act policy , non Act reason , who has amené them Members at refuser he rereads has three years a bill to study conjointe of health issue by foreign Communes and the Senate . 
transport senators accompliraient a service public apply they apply chargeaient eux - mêmes of unabated study . 
honourable senators , the 26 November last , lors of the caucus of them maires of them 21 more grandes cities of the Canada , business members of health Federation canadienne of them municipalities , I ai presented mon bill . 
unabated association , who regroupe more of 600 municipalities Forces , has passed , he rereads has two years , series resolution which appuyait Act policy prohibitionniste of the government federal fell matière of control of them drogues illicites . 
unabated resolution enjoignait them authorities fédérales at not not modify them provisions of the actuelle Act réglementant certaines drogues and other substances . 
however , the 21 April last , the Association canadienne of them chefs of police has recommended at the government federal - décriminaliser and non - légaliser Act possession of small quantités of stupéfiants , incluant the héroïne . 
what who guardian the most encourageant streets Act prise of position of the Association canadienne of them chefs of police , what is that she recommandait at Act population canadienne and at the government federal - adopt series approach who traiterait toutes them questions relatives at Act consumption abusive of stupéfiants commentator a problem of health Public . 
i tiens at you remind that unabated Position has been seconded by Act Mounted Royal Canadian the Canada . 
since unabated prise of position , health Federation canadienne of them municipalities is fell train of réviser dapper own position Act unabated question . 
she tente of développer series nouvelle strategy streets what field , axée Act Act reduction of them méfaits loyalty them usagers of drogues . 
health federation , at the name of ses members , has done parvenir series letter at the minister of health Howe demandant that the government crée a forum where unabated question serait débattue . 
what is what that I you move today today with Act creation of a committee Special Act them drogues illégales . 
transport municipalities acclaimed a role important at play streets Act reform of our political antidrogues . 
thin constitute the level of government ' more proche of the citizen . 
thin occupent series Position privilégiée yeas determine quels are them summarizing problems and consequences payroll engendrés by our political répressives antidrogues . 
transport maires are conscients of unabated responsibility and they acclaimed asked what that they palatable make yeas modify unabated situation . 
commentator we all , they are at Act research of solutions alternatives at these problems Cultural . 
commentator we , they fell are flocked at Act conclusion that foreign policies of repression utilisées yeas the control of them drogues illégales are inefficaces and coûtent very cher at them citizens . 
by elsewhere , business members of the caucus of them maires of them grandes cities Forces acclaimed félicité them members of the Senate to wheel well accueilli Act proposal that I ai présentée fell June last . 
the most , the caucus has passed at the unanimously and streets his entirety Act motion which is appeared you . 
bye bearer effect , Seneca what that the mayor of Edmonton , Bill Smith , wrote streets dapper letter of the 29 November 1999 : 
i supports certainly Act motion that you prostituted présentée at the Senate . 
bye mon notice , confirms complements certainly étayer Act necessity of a Senate and the bon work that accomplit unabated institution . 
commentator I the ai said at Act meeting , confirms me offusque always the hear from them people at the Canada criticize the Senate . 
i organize personally of nombreux senators and I know at breaching standpoint they travaillent fort yeas the Canada . 
i tiens at souligner that several of them maires that I ai rencontrés souhaitaient apporter their contribution at them travaux of what committee . 
revenons now at the déroulement of them travaux of the committee . 
bye partir of the mandate décrit streets Act motion , the study that I you move today today arranged divisée fell 12 themes . 
transport honourable senators who voudront participate at them travaux are them bienvenus but , at the foreign purposes of efficiency , I tente of limiting at five them senators who uncovered attitrés at them travaux of the committee . 
composite of them five senators who uncovered members of the committee devra apply engager at prendre fell main them travaux of research of two or three des12 themes . 
i tiens at you fell avertir , health task of diriger Act research and the sélectionner of them witnesses nor arranged not réservée sideshow at the steering of health research and at the coordinator of the committee . 
he remembered notional of a job rigoureux . 
composite of them senators who prendra fell charge these subjects devra make report at them other members of the committee of the avancement of ses recherches . 
some of between you submariners can - perhaps say that he remembered notional of series approach too rigoureuse . 
bye rejecting , I répondrai that I believe firmly that fell adoptant unabated way of travailler , we pourrons accomplir our mandate of series way objective and sérieuse . 
we voulons give series information transparent , objective and vérifiée by foreign members of the committee . 
if we voulons élever the debate at a level more sérieux and well inform them Canadians and the government , we cannot awakened not to another choice that the adopt what type of approach . 
honourable senators , I cannot ai not the intent today today to aborder fell detail composite of them 12 themes who uncovered inclus streets unabated study . 
i vais parler sideshow of ceux who are really importants at condolences yeux yeas that the committee puisse And these issues . 
you prostituted all , I fell am convaincu , commitments knowledge of the document that I you avais 3.25 fell June last . 
when they uncovered informés , the committee devra them inviter at participate at our travaux yeas tenter of découvrir breaching is their level of notions fell matière of drogues . 
why ai - I utilisé the word " notions " , honourable senators ? 
you allez understand fell lisant Act documentation Act the history of health prohibition at the Canada and streets the world . 
you allez understand that foreign questions of health Public not acclaimed never been prises fell account when venait the time to abdicate and the prohiber , and rejecting blocks Act first prohibition , who has been celle of the opium . 
he not has never or almost been question of health Public , but he has amplement been question of notions Public , the racism , the trade international , the Government importance that til capitalists accorder at them companies of products pharmaceutiques . 
toutes them questions of Commerce and the notions acclaimed engendré Act prohibition that til connaît today today . 
transport Canadians comprendront that all levels signataires of these treaties acclaimed mené tranquillement Act population of our country , car them parliamentarians , the good faith , not apply are never retournés yeas see the where venait Act prohibition . 
til has cru what that our ancêtres we specialist said , til has foncé and til has continué at prohiber and at sign the foreign treaties yeas prohiber still more . 
today today , til apply retrouve streets Act situation that the Dr. Riley you has décrite streets the report that I ai tabled fell June last . 
i pourrais you fell parler during long , but I cannot ai not the intent of prendre davantage of your time . 
you prostituted appeared you them paramètres détaillés of the mandate that I you asking yeas the committee , a mandate of series durée of three years . 
commentator I the ai said everything at the hour , each member aurait Act responsibility to certaines facettes of the mandate global , and what is a job very rigoureux . 
why ? 
he existe already much of recherches scientific streets what field . 
what is perhaps - perhaps the topic who has been the most examined streets Act second half of the XXe century . 
he remembered notional of éliminer what type of research and the run concentrer with rigueur Act Act research scientifique pure . 
each member of the committee aurait Act responsibility to series of them facettes of the examination . 
everyone confirms can fingertips apply échelonner Act close to both years . 
after confirms , he remembered notional of rédiger a report Interim , the inform them Canadians to what that we aurons discovered , the susciter ensuite their reactions yeas fell arriver at the phase of the report . 
he rereads fingertips fell surveillance of road series élection fédérale . 
i ose penser that we serons at same of avoid them écueils that arresting we apporter series élection fédérale , mostly when he is question of a topic also sensible . 
i préfère therefore wheel more of time yeas make the work and analyzed avoid the perhaps forcé of produire a report which arranged jeté fell pâture at the foreign politicians who never rechercheront that the foreign subjects yeas lesquels them passions of them Canadians palatable perhaps éveillées without that til their gives blunt the information necessary . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Kenny , the debate is adjourned . ) 
fisheries 
Authorized at the committee of And of them questions relatives at his mandate 
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau , pursuant at the avisdu 2 December 1999 , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them fisheries authorized authorized at And , afin of introduce a report Act to them questions relatives at the industry to them fisheries ; 
that the Comité circulation report at the most later the 12 December 2000 ; and 
that the Comité authorized authorized , nonobstant them practices habituelles , at déposer his report auprès of the Greffier of the Senate if the Senate not seat not , and that ledit report authorized réputé wheel been tabled at the Senate . 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I voudrais make series observation Act the élaboration of the Order of referred at the hook of series grande question commentator celle of them fisheries , who is indispensable and that I supports entièrement . 
health week dernière , we fell awakened élaboré a Act the Agriculture and a another Act them Forestry . 
the senator Nolin fell request a Act them drogues illicites . 
the senator Kirby fell request a Act them services of health . 
certaines of them studies fell question dureront can - perhaps a 2000 or two . 
streets the case of celle of the senator Nolin , she durera three years . 
before the approver these studies spéciales , we devrions obtain a aperçu of them costs fell question , the autant more than , at ma knowledge , the budget of our committees - I cannot believe not that royal situation ait changed these dernières years - is always very limité . 
he remembered notional probably the Government station budgétaire the most sollicité and always Subcommittee - financé . 
i cannot veux not allegiances a frein at the study Proposed by foreign senators Comeau and Robichaud . 
before that we cannot allions too loin , I estimated however that we devrions wheel a aperçu General of what that these studies coûteront at the Senate and the Government amount that we analyzed disposés at engager at the surveillance of them two and three prochaines years . 
we constaterons can - perhaps that we cannot pourrons not finishing certaines of these studies , fault of funds or the prévoyance . 
the senator Comeau : 
the problem that he rereads has referred introduce a budget before the obtain a mandate , what is that without mandate , til not can introduce a budget . 
the thanking , he tangibly wheel the mandate and ensuite , we pouvons we adresser at our committee and prepare the budget . 
if the committee Standing of health Economy Internal , the foreign Budgets and the Government administration believes that we devrions aller of the prior with the study , til rereads fell discuss at what moment - là , but we cannot pouvons everything simply not prepare a budget without wheel at the préalable a mandate . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I ai series question at poser at the senator Comeau . 
i think that I organize Act response , but permettez - moi of the confirm . 
i believe that unabated motion is présentée with the approval of them members of the committee , and I guess that what is series approval unanimous , but I apprécierais series observation at what topic . 
i comprends the standpoint of standpoint defended by the senator Lynch - Staunton analyzed that gerrymandering of the senator Comeau . 
fell activist that President of a committee , he is difficult to savoir what who proceeded fell Prime streets these cases - là . 
whereupon that he fell authorized , I know that the committee has done to the excellent work at the surveillance of health dernière législature at Act subsequently of a referred to what kind . 
the committee has tenu account the one referred at the budget of them Estimates yeas fonder his study , and we fell arriverons là at a moment rose streets unabated enceinte . 
i query that til me dise what that he fell is the Day decision to the committee of saisir the Senate to unabated motion . 
the senator Comeau : 
honourable senators , health motion whose parle the Leader Deputy , authorized celle Convey Act the Estimates for them Estimates , is Act third motion that I vais introduce . 
i there viendrai streets a instant . 
ma third motion proposes that , at the case where the Estimates for them Estimates serait renvoyé at the committee , we ayons the moyen of déposer the report Act these forecasts budgétaires . 
however , yeas the instant , if them forecasts budgétaires not are not renvoyées at our committee , well heard , we cannot them renverrons not at the Clerk if the Senate not seat not . 
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud : 
honourable senators , if I puis add few commentaires and perhaps - perhaps rassurer the Honourable Senator Lynch - Staunton , when we awakened considéré unabated motion , he remembered agissait fell fact of wheel a mandate enough large yeas we permettre of And toutes them questions relatives at them fisheries . 
he guardian everything at fact heard that if we devions voyager , a budget serait préparé and presented at the committee of health Economy Internal , the foreign Budgets and the Government administration afin that we puissions adhere them directives that each committee has reçues of contrôler ses Estimates . 
the 2000 last , the committee of them fisheries and the foreign océans has richly 3.25 a trip Act Act Coast West because that til not pouvait not find them fund nécessaires yeas effectuer what trip . Il 
is well including that what not is not series question of budget and the run promener a little everywhere at the Canada . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
what not guardian not mon intention of laisser planer a doubt autour of health motion of the senator Comeau . 
i voulais ask that til authorized autant that possible always soucieux of the fact that our budgets are very limités . 
also louables that soient them studies demandées , mostly celles who faces prolongent Act series period of two or three years , he serait bon that the Senate authorized saisi of them costs immediately yeas not not wheel of mauvaises surprises . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , nil another senator not widow prendre Act parole . 
you plaît - he ' adopt Act motion , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
Authorized at the committee of permettre Act diffusion of ses deliberations by the foreign afford électroniques 
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau , pursuant at the notice du2 December 1999 , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them fisheries authorized habilité at permettre the reportage of ses deliberations translated by foreign media of information électroniques , fell dérangeant the least possible ses travaux . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , you plaît - he ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
Authorized at the committee of engager of the staff 
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau , pursuant at the notice that he has rose the 2,500 December 1999 , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them fisheries authorized habilité at retenir them services of advisors , techniciens , employees of office or other elements nécessaires yeas examiner them bills of Bill , health seams of bills of Bill and Oceans forecasts budgétaires who him acclaimed been déférés . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
transport and Communications 
Authorized at the committee of diffuser ses deliberations by foreign media of information électroniques 
the Honourable Lise Bacon , pursuant at the notice of the 6 December 1999 , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them transport and the foreign Communications authorized authorized at permettre Act diffusion of ses deliberations translated by foreign media of information électroniques , the manner at bother the least possible ses travaux . 
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin : 
honourable senators , the most fell more , all levels committees demandent at the Senate Committee Authorized to radiodiffuser and the télédiffuser their hearings translated . 
til fell is arrivé at the standpoint where the snakes should give series licence générale at all levels committees which veulent procéder of health sorte . 
til 21.2 when same at series époque where everybody the world is branché , everything the world wants regarder and écouter . 
unabated exigence is devenue superflue . 
the committee of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure should apply pencher Act what préalable and he should biffer of the rules unabated exigence . 
til laisserait them committees maîtres of their destinée streets what field . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , there has he ' other honourable who voudraient prendre Act parole ? 
the foreign Senators : 
nay . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , you plaît - he ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
Authorized at the committee of retenir of them services 
the Honourable Lise Bacon , pursuant at the notice of the 6 December 1999 , moved : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them transport and the foreign Communications authorized habilité at retenir them services of advisors , techniciens , employees of office or other elements nécessaires yeas examiner them bills of Bill , health seams of bills of Bill and Oceans forecasts budgétaires who him acclaimed been déférés . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , you plaît - he ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
( the Senate apply ajourne at the Wednesday 8 December 1999 , at 1:30 1:30 30 . ) 
debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
2e Session , Session Session , 
volume 138 , Issue 18 
the Wednesday 8 December 1999 
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker 
table of them Contents 
STATEMENTS STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
health maturation in vitro 
the Ontario 
health law Act Act restructuring régionale - Possibility proposal of déclarer Ottawa officially bilingue 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
bibliothèque of the Parliament 
Presented of the Prime report of the committee Joint 
agriculture and Forestry 
depository of the Prime report of the committee 
earth - Newfoundland 
health reform of the system scolaire - Possibility Modified at Act clause 17 of health Constitution - ô of the Prime report of the committee Joint Special 
languages Languages 
Presented of the Prime report of the committee Joint Standing 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
transport transport 
the airport of Fredericton - Ex état of them negotiations Refer at the transférer at the administration aéroportuaire locale 
the airport of Fredericton - Ex inaptitude of the network of pistes at accueillir some appareils 
transport Affairs Intergovernmental 
the Ontario ? Position restructuring régionale municipale - Ex refusal of health province of déclarer Act Capital national bilingue 
transport transport 
the acquisition of them Lignes strikes Quebecer International by Air Canada - Possibility regulatory of a éventuel monopoly streets the industry to the transportation of them travellers aériens - Possibility policy of the government 
air Canada - Ex increase the foreign tarifs aériens 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques - Ex Opposition of health share of the government ' s Alberta 
transport transport 
air Canada - Possibility hausse of them tarifs 
the Heritage 
the status of the musée commemorative of the Holocaust 
orders OF THE 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and based them documents électroniques 
third reading - Motion to amendment ? Adjourned of the debate 
health Act Act the casier judicial 
bill to Bill Amend - Third Reading 
the Estimates for them Estimates for 1999 - 2000 
passage of the report of the committee of them finances nationales Act the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) 
bill to Bill facilitant Act prise of certaines decisions médicales 
second reading - Continued of the debate 
section canadienne of the church morave of amérique 
bill to Bill private visant at modify Act Act to incorporation - Third Reading 
transport travaux of the Senate 
Points at the rules - Points of health Ruling 
the SENATE 
the Wednesday 8 December 1999 
health postponement is ouverte at 1:30 1:30 30 , the Speaker étant at the fauteuil . 
prayers . 
health maturation in vitro 
the Honourable Lucie pin : 
honourable senators , he rereads has three weeks , the foreign researchers of the University McGill acclaimed déclaré wheel helped with success several couples at concevoir of them bébés , voire of them jumeaux , thanks at series nouvelle méthode révolutionnaire . 
health méthode who facilite Act transformation of them ovules immatures of series mother fell embryons apply appelle Act maturation in vitro . 
health MIV découle of health méthode of fécondation in vitro who has révolutionné the treatment of the infertility streets them years 70 . 
health maturation in vitro diffère of health fécondité in vitro of the fact that , streets Act MIV , the ovule is amené at maturité puis fécondé at the outside of the utérus of health mother , Robbie that , streets Act FIV , the ovule already mature is fécondé fell laboratory . 
health MIV has been implementation at the standpoint fell Korea - Government South and fell Australia at the beginning of them years 90 at the intent of them women whose business ovules not pouvaient perhaps amenés naturally at maturité . 
until at recently , the rate of success of health MIV guardian low , but the Dr. Seang Lin Tan , director of the Département of obstétrique and the gynécologie at the University McGill , has changed them things . 
fell réussissant at amener them ovules at maturité at the outside of the body , he has opened Act door at the nouvelles méthodes of fécondation in vitro permettant a rate of success supérieur at the low 20p. cent Present . 
unabated technical seems réussir at them women who acclaimed unsuccessfully without success of devenir enceintes by the other methods . 
fell outre , she coûte Act half of what that coûtait Act FIV . 
damned merveilleuse nouvelle yeas them couples who pourront fell profiter ! 
but that fell is - he yeas our society ? 
with Act panoplie of nouvelles techniques of reproductive , health response , what is that we analyzed streets the uncertainty . 
we analyzed very pleased yeas them couples who , thanks at unabated technology , uncovered capables of wheel of them children . 
but them things not are not also simples . 
who should profiter of unabated technology ? 
who has access at what treatment ? 
that doit - til savoir before the run soumettre at what treatment ? 
quelles are them repercussions incidental of what treatment Act the Mifflin moral at court , moyen and term term ? 
transport enjeux are if complex and Oceans applications éventuelles of several of these technologies are if vastes . 
what is a field where he not there has anguishes noir anguishes white , but that the Government gris . 
fell 1993 , health Commission Royal Act them nouvelles techniques of reproductive has presented his report recommandant , between other , the create series commission national Act them techniques of reproductive . 
unabated commission guardian censée make several things . 
premièrement , she aurait délivré of them licences at them établissements , and aurait fixé them standards and surveillé them practices relatives at the utilisation of them techniques of reproductive existantes . 
deuxièmement , she aurait recueilli , évalué and release at the public the information sur these technologies . 
troisièmement , he guardian prévu that she surveille the émergence of techniques and the practices nouvelles and that she adopte of them political . 
finally , she capitalists facilitate Act cooperation intergouvernementale streets what field . 
unfortunately , the government federal not has not rose subsequently at unabated recommendation . 
each once that I dissenting parler of health implementation at the standpoint of series nouvelle technical at the Canada , I regret the absence of series commission national . 
we cannot awakened not to body attain chargé of examiner them questions that posent these techniques or the fell réglementer the utilisation . 
i urge the government federal at bye them recommendations of health commission Royal Canadian 1993 and the prendre blocks that possible them measures which apply imposent yeas create series commission national of them techniques of reproductive . 
the Ontario 
health law Act Act restructuring régionale - Possibility proposal of déclarer Ottawa officially bilingue 
the Honourable Lorna Milne : 
honourable senators , the example the right and health Constitution of the Canada , the government ' s Ontario is maître of toutes them municipalities of health province , and the government Present is absolument déterminé at fell make Act Evidence . 
unfortunately , what same government not has never hésité , not serait - what that series seconde , at impose dapper volonté at them citizens of health province . 
i tiens at souligner that the government ontarien not has never forcé them municipalities that he has créées at adopt the appellation " officially bilingue " . 
Ottawa is however series municipally commentator nowhere else . 
what is Act Capital national of what country bilingue who is the ours . 
honourable senators , I urge the government ontarien at suivre Act recommendation deM. Glen Shortliffe , his advisor Special Act Act restructuring of health region of Ottawa - Carleton , and at déclarer officially bilingue Act nouvelle city of Ottawa résultant of the amalgamation , city who is also Act Capital of the Canada . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
bibliothèque of the Parliament 
Presented of the Prime report of the committee Joint 
the Honourable Louis J . Robichaud , coprésident of the committee Joint Standing of health Library of the Parliament , présente the report suivant : 
the Wednesday 8 December 1999 
the Comité Joint Standing of health Library of the Parliament has the honour to introduce his 
prime REPORT 
your Comité recommends that he authorized authorized at advisor them Présidents of the Senate and the Day House of them Commons streets the fiscal of their autorité Act Act Library of the Parliament and that he authorized habilité at make the foreign recommendations at them chairmen of them two Houses regarding health Economy of health bibliothèque and health good utilisation of them appropriation affectés by the Parliament at the achat of documents or objets destinés at there perhaps déposés . 
your Comité recommends that the quorum authorized établi at seven ( 7 ) members , pourvu that foreign two Houses soient représentées each once that he rereads has a vote or that series resolution or blunt another decision is prise , and that foreign coprésidents soient autorisés at heed of them meetings yeas hear them testimony and at fell autoriser the impression , pourvu that four ( 4 ) members soient présents and that foreign two Houses soient représentées . 
your Comité recommends also at the Senate that he authorized authorized at sit durant them sittings of the Senate . 
a copy of them Procès - verbaux pertinents ( Meeting No. 1 ) is tabled . 
respectfully submitted , 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when étudierons - we what report ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Robichaud , the study of the report is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement . ) 
agriculture and Forestry 
depository of the Prime report of the committee 
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn : 
honourable senators , pursuant at the article 104 of the rules of the Senate , I ai the honour to déposer the Prime report of the committee sénatorial Standing of the Agriculture and the foreign Forestry , who door Act them Estimates engagées by the committee at the surveillance of health first session of health trente - sixth législature . 
( the text of the report consigned at them Journals of the Senate to today today . ) 
earth - Newfoundland 
health reform of the system scolaire - Possibility Modified at Act clause 17 of health Constitution - ô of the Prime report of the committee Joint Special 
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn : 
honourable senators , pursuant at the article 104 of the rules of the Senate , I ai the honour to déposer the Prime report of the committee Joint Special regarding health Modified at Act clause 17 of them Conditions of the union of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , who door Act them Estimates engagées by the committee at the surveillance of health first session of health trente - sixth législature . 
( the text of the report consigned at them Journals of the Senate to today today . ) 
languages Languages 
Presented of the Prime report of the committee Joint Standing 
the Honourable Rose - Marie Losier - Cool , coprésidente of the committee Joint Standing of them languages Languages , présente the report suivant : 
the Wednesday 8 December 1999 
the Comité Joint Standing of them languages Languages has the honour to introduce his 
prime REPORT 
your Comité , who is authorized by the article 88 of health Act Act them languages Languages of suivre the application of health law , the foreign regulations and instructions fell découlant , analyzed that royal implementation fell 9uvre of them reports of the commissioner at them languages Languages , the Government Speaker of the Council of the Treasury and the Government Minister of the Patrimoine Heritage , done report , pursuant at the article 104 of the rules , that foreign Estimates encourues at unabated end by the committee at the surveillance of health first session of health trente - sixth législature are them suivantes : 
your Comité recommends that the quorum authorized desept ( 7 ) members , at condition that foreign two Houses and the Opposition soient représentées at the moment of a vote , the genus resolution or the blunt another decision , and that foreign coprésidents soient autorisés at heed of them meetings yeas hear them testimony and at fell autoriser Act publication blocks that four ( 4 ) members are présents , at condition that foreign two Houses and the Opposition soient représentées . 
durant Act session , the Comité has examiné Act Partie VII of health Act Act them languages Languages , fell vertu of laquelle the government federal apply commits at favoriser the épanouissement of them minorities francophones and anglophones of the Canada and at appuyer their development . 
the Comité has tenu 28 meetings and heard 47 witnesses . 
respectfully submitted , 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when étudierons - we what report ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Losier - Cool , the study of the report is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement . ) 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
transport transport 
the airport of Fredericton - Ex état of them negotiations Refer at the transférer at the administration aéroportuaire locale 
the Honourable Brenda Robertson : 
honourable senators , I voudrais poser series question at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
much of parliamentarians of health region of the Atlantic apply préoccupent now the Government uncertainty entourant the service aérien offert at our most small communities streets Act region . 
however , the airport of Fredericton has a another problem fell more of unabated uncertainty . 
all ceux who empruntent bearer airport savent that he has been négligé at the incorrigible of them years . 
the government federal négocie yeas transférer the airport at them authorities locales . 
however , unabated neglect commence at make sentir ses effects . 
she dure since long , environ20 years . 
because that til has négligé them facilities and that til has done fi of them needs actuels of the airport , according a section paru streets the Daily Gleaner , business consultants of the administration aéroportuaire of the Grand Fredericton him acclaimed signalé that a investment de20 million for $ is necessary yeas make fell sorte that the airport réponde at them standards actuelles or at them standards who faces imposent of our days . 
til apply request same if health piste principale not is not too courte . 
the government federal not is not disposé at make bearer investment of 20 billion to $ before the transférer Act responsibility to the airport at them operators premises . 
streets what case - là , the administration aéroportuaire locale has little of chances of réussir . 
he remembered can also that foreign revenues aéroportuaires baissent at Act subsequently of health restructuring of the industry to the transportation aérien and the genus reduction éventuelle of the number of atterrissages . 
transport chances that a Insignia exploitant réussisse are still less grandes . 
he remembered notional , at mon notice , the genus question of fairness . 
if the administration aéroportuaire of the Grand Fredericton doit wheel series exodus chance to réussir and the exploiter the airport , who dessert Act Capital and the centre of the Brunswick - Brunswick , the government federal doit reconnaître that he tangibly really , streets the framework of them negotiations with the administration aéroportuaire locale Act Act prise of control of the airport , heed account the toutes them years where he has treaty of way unfair bearer airport . 
the Leader of the government fournira he at the Senate a account rendu of them negotiations entourant what problem sérieux yeas them residents of Fredericton ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I cannot am not very at the courant of them negotiations fell surveillance at the topic of the airport of Fredericton , but I know breaching process has been passed streets of other regions of the country . 
i organize particularly well the case of the airport of Halifax , where a process similar has been passed and where the foreign questions similaires acclaimed been soulevées . 
i dois here tribute tribute at mon prédécesseur , the senator Graham , whose the work has widely contributed at convince the government federal - financer them improvements Location at them immobilisations of the airport of Halifax . 
the blunt évidence , what is series question who is abordée when the telles negotiations are businesses . 
a precedent has certes been établi . 
understandings at savoir damned arranged the issue of these negotiations , I cannot am surely not fell measure of échafauder of them assumptions , but I am conscient of the importance of the problem . 
i am disposé at make share of them concerns of the senator at the minister fell cause . 
the senator Robertson : 
dear the minister , I you fell serais fort reconnaissante , everything commentator the petitioners without doubt also the other honourable . 
he seems that til ait responded enough well at their needs . 
however , we aimerions obtain a account rendu of your intervention auprès of the minister afin of veiller at what that royal situation own at Fredericton authorized réglée quickly and with much of fairness . 
we attendons with impatience of obtaining your answer at what topic . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I am assurément disposé at aborder unabated question with the minister of them Transport , the Honourable David Collenette . 
the most , when the opportunity apply présentera , I me ferai a plaisir of discuss the Government problem with mon colleague the Government Council private venant of health province of the Brunswick - Brunswick . 
the airport of Fredericton - Ex inaptitude of the network of pistes at accueillir some appareils 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I ai series question Supplementary . 
the Leader of the government could - he , at the surveillance of dapper discussion with the minister of them Transport regarding the airport of Fredericton , attirer the attention of what last Act the study of 1992 of the Department of them Transport who reconnaissait Act necessity of prolonger at 78 40,000 inches Act piste is - west ? 
currently , unabated piste not can accueillir that the foreign appareils turbopropulseurs . 
health piste south - west can accueillir of them DC9 and the foreign BAC146 and , when he fact beau , the avion at reaction régional . 
i mover at the minister of aborder Act question with his colleague , the minister of them Transport , but also with a another of ses colleagues , the minister of health Défense national . 
otherwise said , honourable senators , business Airbus of them Forces Forces not arresting not atterrir Act Act more grande basic of them Forces Forces at the Canada , what who seems enough invraisemblable . 
when he rereads has the foreign déplacements of soldiers of health basic of Gagetown - and he remembered notional of health later grande basic of them Forces Forces non only at the Canada , but also , at the level géographique , at the Commonwealth britannique - they repositories apply tribute fell autobus at Moncton , where apply trouve series piste more attest pouvant accueillir them Airbus of them Forces Forces . 
i me request if health seconde dimension of what need , implementation fell évidence streets Act own study of the Department of them Transport of 1992 and ensuite streets the fact that royal BFC of Gagetown apply trouve là and that foreign military not arresting not there make atterrir their appareils , could perhaps abordée . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I serais happy to transmettre at them ministers fell question them commentaires of the Opposition Deputy of the Opposition . 
transport Affairs Intergovernmental 
the Ontario ? Position restructuring régionale municipale - Ex refusal of health province of déclarer Act Capital national bilingue 
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
health Capital of the country , selonM. Harris and company , serait therefore unilingual anglaise . 
unabated nouvelle city of Ottawa regroupera Subcommittee series same administration toutes them municipalities urbaines of health region of Ottawa - Carleton . 
unabated decision to the government Conservative deM. Harris démontre at breaching standpoint he ignore Act reality canadienne , a country rose two languages Languages . 
he is unacceptable and intolérable that the Canada ait series Capital national unilingual . 
we serions the unique Capital at the world who rejette the bilingualism institutionnel . 
i cannot organize not to countries rose two languages Languages or more who never gave not respecté Act duality linguistic streets dapper Capital . 
the minister may - he we say if the government federal has the intent of make pression auprès deM. Harris and the Hon. government yeas that he diminishes them two languages Languages , authorized the French and the English , streets Act Capital of our country ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , business statements who acclaimed been faites at the Senate by the senator analyzed that by the senator Milne more earlier and the other night reflètent mon standpoint of standpoint voulant that he convient absolument that royal Capital of the country authorized bilingue . 
the administration municipale is certes series responsibility provinciale , but Ottawa is series city similar at aucune another at the country . 
she is Act Capital of the country . 
before the respond at the name of the government , honourable senators , I voudrais make ressortir that I believe firmly that royal city of Ottawa doit perhaps series Capital national bilingue . 
honourable senators , the Prime Minister has spoke publicly at bearer regard . 
he communiquera with the Prime Minister of the Ontario and the pressera of prendre them measures which apply imposent yeas veiller at what that royal Capital of the country authorized déclarée officially bilingue . 
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin : 
honourable senators , I tuned Act response donnée by the Leader of the government and I am entièrement of agreement with him . 
the senator Gauthier : 
honourable senators , I comprends Act Position of the government . 
health municipally of Ottawa - Carleton is series creation of the government dd and is therefore Subcommittee dapper juridiction . 
everyone of same , the minister may - he say if the government federal , appeared a refusal of health province of déclarer Act Capital national bilingue , utilisera his power constitutional or telecommunications powers that wouldn confère Act Act Act them languages Languages yeas corriger unabated situation and make fell sorte that series city of Ottawa agrandie authorized and remains Act Capital national of the country with two languages Languages ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , a certain number of persons férues fell matière BNA , there including the foreign senators , are the notice that the article 16 of health Act BNA confère a certain power at the government federal yeas intervene streets of them questions semblables . 
everyone what that I puis say to a standpoint of standpoint legal , what is that the government federal and the Prime Minister are , fell what moment same , fell train of examiner Act question . 
blunt question BNA is complex and nécessite usually a review attentif . 
frankly , I think that the government préférerait that royal question authorized réglée without Points at them courts . 
espérons that the Prime Minister of the Ontario répondra at them souhaits clearly exprimés of health population of the country , the foreign senators , the Government Prime Minister and the other personalities . 
he is at espérer that the Prime Minister of the Ontario prendra these propos at the sérieux and that he changera his fusil of épaule . 
the senator Nolin : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
i am the agreement with your answer and with what that your government tente of affirmer . 
he not done nil doubt that we devrons we poser Act question , at savoir what that we ferons of health region of Hull , who fact also part of health region of health Capital national . 
what is a everything another problem . 
damned assistance financière êtes - you loan at apporter afin of you ensure that the government ' s Ontario not utilise not them reasons Economic yeas avoid the changer Act situation ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , he remembered notional of series question who asks of franches discussions between the Prime Minister of the Canada and gerrymandering of the Ontario . 
i believe that these discussions auront instead and that the Prime Minister of the Canada constatera Robbie , when he prendra fell considération toutes them observations who auront been faites , the Government less streets unabated House , that we analyzed very favorables at the foreign measures visant at make fell sorte that Ottawa authorized series Capital bilingue . 
he serait impossible to make the foreign conjectures Act them details of these discussions yeas the instant . 
however , the message has been rose clearly . 
the government ' s Canada and his Prime Minister ' prennent at the sérieux . 
til hope that the Prime Minister of the Ontario fell fera autant . 
the Honourable Marcel Prud man : 
honourable senators , after the longues deliberations , health reine Victoria Partnerships decided that Ottawa serait Act Capital of the Canada . 
Montreal , Kingston and Toronto specialist autrefois been the foreign capitales , and Oceans things not apply étaient not well passées streets aucune of these cities . 
what is Ottawa who Partnerships been choisie . 
i conviens with the senator Nolin that til aurait préféré that Hull authorized ajoutée at Ottawa , but néanmoins , Ottawa is Act Capital of the Canada . 
i am perhaps - perhaps légèrement fell désaccord with mon colleague , fell what sense that the government federal should prévoir of them fund or a encouragement . 
i request that Ottawa reflects a ideal . 
moi , I am a Quebecer French - Government Quebec . 
by conséquent , the government federal should remind at them people of Ottawa and at the government ' s Ontario that unabated city should refléter really what that til voulait that she authorized , health Capital of everyone the Canada . 
puisque I aime perhaps positif , I suggérerais same that the Honourable Leader of the government songe , with all ses colleagues , at propose series motion at the Senate afin of remind at all levels responsables that Ottawa should refléter Act exodus nature of the Canada . 
the Leader of the government songera he at propose series simple resolution of the Senate yeas remind at everything the world that Ottawa should represent all levels Canadians ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , we réfléchirons certainly at unabated suggestion . 
by elsewhere , I voudrais also me make the écho of what that the Honourable Senator has said streets his preamble . 
he has been much more eloquent at what topic that I cannot pourrais the perhaps , but he remembered notional certainly the genus affair of series importance grave yeas we all . 
transport transport 
the acquisition of them Lignes strikes Quebecer International by Air Canada - Possibility regulatory of a éventuel monopoly streets the industry to the transportation of them travellers aériens - Possibility policy of the government 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , I ai two or three issues regarding Air Canada and dapper merger with Quebecer International and health blunt dernière decision to Air Canada . 
commentator we the savons all , Air Canada has now reporté at the 23 December Act date limite yeas the tabling and the regulation final of them actions and analyzed of subsequently . 
health society Air Canada not has not précisé of way detailed fell whereupon consistaient them problems , but she has shirts hear that she chercherait at obtain the consent of bodies of regulatory , the same that series clarification of them provisions of a bill to nouvelle regulatory or the nouvelle policy . 
dois - I fell déduire of these statements générales that til has proposed something something fell what sense , that til fell has discussed with them leaders of Air Canada and that their review of health proposal apply Turcot ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
the senator Forrestall : 
what is because that what guardian a section of health Presse canadienne . 
the senator Boudreau : 
the committee of them transport of health House of them Commons has tabled his report . 
the senator Kinsella : 
he not apply is however not arrêté at the article 47 . 
the senator Boudreau : 
he not done nil doubt that the report of the committee sénatorial of them transport and the foreign Communications arranged tabled very soon . 
transport two reports offrent can - perhaps series orientation understandings at series policy précise fell matière of transportation aérien . 
i am at the courant of the motif of the postponement of the offers the Air Canada . 
everyone what that I know yeas the moment , I the ai read streets the Globe Mail Mail . 
air Canada - Ex increase the foreign tarifs aériens 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , we awakened seen Air Canada franchir series second phase . 
health first phase , who has consisté at laisser hear that , if the government tentait of something way that what authorized to reduce dapper freedom of movement , she retirerait his offers , what who ferait apply écrouler everything the bill to merger , has strokes the effect of series exodus gifle at the government ' s Canada and at all levels Canadians raisonnables . 
he rereads has certainly something something which apply prépare at the topic of them tarifs streets them discussions between the government ' s Canada and Air Canada . 
fell reason for the increase the Government price of the carburant , we venons fair to subir series increase générale of 3p. cent of them tarifs aériens , what who is a exodus abus . 
these tarifs 1.2 always and not redescendent never . 
human not seems savoir why they not arresting not redescendre . 
there has he ' Affairs discussions Act the process of regulatory between the government ' s Canada and Air Canada who justifieraient that royal society aérienne profite of toutes them occasions , élimine Act competition and circulation encaisser at them consumers series increase the 3p. cent of them tarifs ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
transport interests of health population canadienne , the foreign small communities of everyone the Canada and the foreign travellers uncovered at the heart of blunt discussion with Air Canada . 
the senator Forrestall : 
honourable senators , the Leader of the government at the Senate could - he we say if til paving ask at Air Canada ' annuler the increase the 3p. cent until at what that a giveaway décent apply authorized elapsed ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I cannot think not that he me incombe of defend a transporteur aérien attain . 
however , til we said that the increase is attribuable at the fact that the cost of the carburant apply is accru , if I cannot me abuse , the 100p. cent at the surveillance of them derniers months . 
if them price of the carburant baissent , we verrons if them tarifs aériens baissent also . 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques - Ex Opposition of health share of the government ' s Alberta 
the Honourable Douglas Roche : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the chairman of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology . 
the chairman has done allusion at series letter that two ministers of the government ' s Alberta , Shirley McClellan , Minister of them Relations internationales and Intergovernmental , and Walter Paszkowski , Minister of them Foreign municipales , him acclaimed envoyée the 7 December yeas apply opposer at the bill to Bill C - 6 , Convey Act Act protection of them information personnels . 
streets unabated letter who has been widely diffusée and who constitue Act seconde communication venant of the government ' s Alberta , health province cherche at obtain the foreign amendments at the bill to Bill yeas supprimer them sections who empiètent Act Act jurisdiction of them provinces , analyzed that the other provisions . 
Étant rose them instances pressantes présentées by the government ' s Alberta Act Act question of jurisdiction , damned is Act response to the chairman at Act statement of the Alberta according laquelle , if what Bill of Bill is passed , the Alberta could perhaps forcée of contester Act constitutionality of unabated measure yeas maintain ses powers at them termes of health Constitution ? 
the Honourable Michael Kirby : 
honourable senators , I vais respond at Act dernière question fell everything Prime instead . 
even if some , notamment the government ' s Alberta , arresting penser that the bill to Bill is inconstitutionnel , business constitutionnalistes consultés by the committee and , fell fact , by the government are everything at fact persuadés that the bill to Bill arranged jugé constitutional . 
health first question is a little more complex , at savoir that what Bill of Bill not apply appliquera not at them activities intraprovinciales pourvu that royal province ait a bill to Bill fondamentalement similar at Act bill fédérale . 
he serait difficult yeas them businesses of Welfare assujetties at two programs , what who serait the case if series province capitalists adopt series bill Act Act protection of them information personnels fell grande part similar at the bill to Bill C - 6 . 
he is obvious that what is a standpoint of standpoint légitime and what is what who explique Act provision prévue streets the bill to Bill federal : if series province adopte series bill Act Act protection of them information personnels similar fell grande part , the bill to Bill federal not apply appliquera not streets what case - là . 
rest at savoir , by example , if the prior - Bill of Bill of the Alberta regarding health health is substantiellement similaire . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , business questions adressées at the chairman of a committee not repositories not porter Act the topic at the study , but strictly Act them activities of the committee . 
transport questions Convey Act the fond of what that expecting a committee not are not recevables . 
the senator Roche : 
honourable senators , seen these difficulties , existe he series reason expliquant why til not has not asked at the government ' s Alberta - testify appeared the committee yeas explain dapper Position , étant rose that , the 15 October , he Partnerships sent series first letter , who complements of Welfare suivie of series letter quasiment identique ? 
the senator Kirby : 
honourable senators , I pourrai you the confirm tomorrow , but , the afternoon what that I know , til has asked at several provinces who specialist sent series letter - notamment the Alberta and the Ontario ? if thin voulaient subpoenas . 
the Ontario has sent to them representatives , whose his subamendment - Minister Deputy of health Health . 
the minister not has not comparu . 
if I me souviens well , and the Clerk of the committee devra the confirm , til has asked at the government ' s Alberta apply he voulait subpoenas , but he has answered that dapper letter suffirait commentator témoignage and that person cannot comparaîtrait fell his name . 
transport transport 
air Canada - Possibility hausse of them tarifs 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
honourable senators , ma question door Act Air Canada and based Act hausse of them tarifs . 
health issue has already been posée and til there has answered fell part , but I aurais series question supplementary at poser at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
according the National Post , Laura Cook , door - parole of Air Canada , aurait said at the topic of health hausse of them tarifs that foreign billets yeas them States - U.S. and other destinations internationales specialist been exemptés and that their price not Partnerships not augmenté fell reason for health competition . 
therefore , if Air Canada apply retrouve fell situation of monopoly at the Canada , without concurrent , tangibly - he remembered wait at what that foreign tarifs not cessent of augmenter ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I cannot dispel anguishes confirm anguishes démentir what that complements of say the senator Oliver . 
i vais however chercher at obtain more of information and I you fell ferai share at the most vite . 
the senator Oliver : 
the minister not convient - he not that he is choquant that royal company aérienne augmente ses tarifs intérieurs , but not ses tarifs internationaux ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , what is yeas the least surprenant and what is series question who deserves the perhaps examinée . 
the Heritage 
the status of the musée commemorative of the Holocaust 
the Honourable Colin Kenny : 
honourable senators , I ai rose notice Act week dernière of health issue that I me apprête at poser . 
the foreign groups préoccupés by the status of the Museum commemorative of the Holocaust apply are adressés at moi . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate could - he we say what that he fell is the Government status of the musée ? 
the government maintient - he his commitment streets the principle of health implementation fell place to a tel musée ? 
if tel is the case , perhaps - til apply wait at see the file progresser ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , health commémoration of bearer événement horrible streets the history of the humanity is series question very importante . 
unfortunately , I cannot dispel not fell parler fell detail today today . 
i me fell excuse auprès of the Honourable Senator , and perhaps - perhaps pourrai - I the make blocks tomorrow . 
orders OF THE 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and based them documents électroniques 
third reading - Motion to amendment ? Adjourned of the debate 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
honourable senators , I ai said yesterday that I avais the intent of propose an amendment at the phase of health third reading of the bill to Bill No. 
he serait can - perhaps bon that I circulation Reading - Government amendment before the fell parler . 
i move , supported by the Honourable Senator Doody : 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the senator Murray : 
i dispose of combien of time yeas intervene ? 
his Honour the Speaker : 
commentator you êtes the Prime at intervene at the phase of health third reading of the bill to Bill , you disposez of 45 minutes . 
i dois however you prévenir that , pursuant at a Order of the Senate , health postponement arranged levée à15 1:30 30 . 
the senator Murray : 
i you thank , Your Honour . 
honourable senators , I you veterinary at the paragraph 7 ) 1 ) , who précise what who suit : 
yeas the application of the article 4.3 of the Printed I and despite Act particulars afférente , the organization not can recueillir of information personnels at the insu of the intéressé and without his consent that streets them case suivants ... 
what are the foreign reasons fort valables who , the Government Notices of blunt human reasonable , suffiraient at justify Act communication of information personnels recueillis at the foreign purposes commerciales . 
however , the bill to Bill énumère ensuite several circumstances more douteuses . 
before the aborder the paragraph whose I ai proposed Act deleting , I évoquerai two - Provincial circumstances douteuses . 
the genus consigned at the alinéa f ) , who soutient that he serait légal of communiquer of them information personnels without the consent of health human visée : 
... at the foreign purposes statistics or at the foreign purposes of study or the search érudites , these purposes not arresting perhaps réalisées without that the Intelligence authorized release , the consent is virtually impossible at obtain and the organization informe the commissioner of health communication before the Day make . 
nothing not introduces here that the commissioner puisse interrupt the process or intervene of something way streets his déroulement . 
the right that wouldn confère what Subcommittee - alinéa is simply gerrymandering of Welfare informé when business information recueillis yeas of them motifs trading at the topic of health human uncovered releases " at the foreign purposes statistics or at the foreign purposes of study ... " 
fell vertu of the alinéa g ) , health communication of information personnels recueillis by series congruent is légale if : 
... she is introductory at series institution whose business attributions admits Act conservation of documents rose series importance historic or archivistique , fell standpoint of series telle conservation . 
he remembered notional here to them information personnels recueillis at your topic , or at the topic of blunt another person , by the foreign companies streets the framework of their activity - regarding by example your mortgage , your carte of credit , your file pharmaceutique . 
he is said here that these information personnels you regarding arresting perhaps releases only " at the foreign purposes statistics or at the foreign purposes of study or the search érudites " or , at the subamendment - alinéa g ) , at the foreign purposes of conservation of documents rose series " importance historic or archivistique " . 
arrêtons - we at the passage at bearer élément . 
soyons well clairs . 
streets Act plupart of them case , he nes' notional not to citizens ordinaires . 
til accorde here the right to accéder at the foreign information personnels regarding the éminentes personalities , that thin appartiennent at the world of health policy , at gerrymandering of them Arts or at a another . 
i think that he is time that we fixions series limite . 
transport persons fell standpoint acclaimed autant the right that no regardless who at Act protection of their lives privacy . 
fell what who pertains them Subcommittee - alinéas f ) and g ) , these individuals uncovered still fell life yeas apply there opposer . 
thin pourront , til présume , run adresser at the commissioner or at them courts , or disposer of other Points appeared Act bill yeas make protect their information personnels . 
health provision at laquelle I me am attardé and that I query make supprimer is the subamendment - alinéa 1:30 ) , voulant that foreign information personnels puissent perhaps releases streets the case where : 
based breaching principle apply fonde til yeas inclure series telle provision streets the bill to Bill ? 
streets the cahier of information that the government has done distribute at them members of the committee , the explanation donnée yeas inclure unabated provision is Act suivante : 
health Act Act Act protection of them information personnels traite of unabated question fell excluant of health definition of them information personnels at them purposes of health law them information personnels regarding series human décédée since vingt years . 
the approach retenue streets unabated measure legislative - ci is more restrictive , car she allows Act divulgation of them information , but ceux - ci restent assujettis at Act bill . 
he is true that royal Act Act Act protection of them information personnels , who has been adoptée he rereads has few years , protège them information personnels that possède series institution fédérale at the topic of particuliers . 
she exempte of ses provisions fell matière of protection of them information regarding series human who is décédée since most of 20 years . 
commentator I the ai said at several other occasions , he can there wheel of bonnes reasons , based on plan to health policy self , the communiquer after 20 years of them information personnels that possèdent of them governments , the déposer these information at them archives ; but confirms not has nothing at see with the bill to Bill that we débattons today today . 
we débattons a bill to Bill regarding the foreign information personnels recueillis streets the sector private , and we ourselves demandons if series telle provision should ceased . 
when business officials acclaimed comparu appeared the committee , I ai posé Act question suivante at Stephanie Perrin , directrice of health Politique Act Act protection of health life privacy of the Group of work Act the trade électronique at the Department of the Industry : 
if I comprends well bearer section and what paragraph , ai - I reason for penser that the foreign information personnels recueillis by a body - series banque , series society of cartes of credit , series society hypothécaire , series company of insurance , or whereupon still - palatable perhaps releases 20 years after the Late of health human fell question ? 
ai - I reason for penser analyzed ? 
Ms Perrin : 
confirms signifie that he not is not necessary to ask the consent of the intéressé yeas divulguer confirms . 
however , health divulgation of information doit perhaps justifiée at them termes of health provision relative at the objet of health law , the sorte that he doit there wheel a motif légitime yeas Act divulgation of the information fell cause . 
he rereads has yet a certain number of criteria . 
everyone what that confirms said , what is that til not has not need to the consent yeas divulguer the information . 
a little more loin , she said : 
you devez énoncer vos motifs , if you représentez a body , yeas Act Donor , the utilisation and health divulgation of information personnels . 
i me am reporté at the bill to Bill yeas see what whose she parlait . 
i ai read the article 5 , who never is not really useful because that he not done that we Refer at the Printed 1 and who faces énonce commentator suit : 
the Employment of the conditionnel streets the Printed indique that he remembered notional of series recommendation and non - series obligation . 
i me am ensuite reporté at the Printed 1 , where are énoncés them principles . 
unabated Printed traite primarily of health Donor of information , and non not to divulgation . 
bye Act Reading - Government Printed , til apprend that royal provision relative at the objet doit perhaps lue fell conjonction with Act provision 4.5 of the Printed 1 , intitulée : " Limitation of the utilisation , the Day communication and the Day conservation " . 
i me am therefore reporté at unabated provision , and that ai - I trouvé ? 
i ai trouvé two or three paragraphes disant that foreign organizations " devraient " élaborer of them lines directrices and appliquer of them procedures yeas Act conservation of them information personnels . 
i ai trouvé series another provision who faces énonce commentator suit : 
til should destroy , effacer or dépersonnaliser them information personnels whose til not has more need at them purposes précitées . 
everyone confirms not is guère useful fell reason for series provision who introduces that he serait légal of divulguer of them information personnels recueillis yeas of them motifs trading 20 years after your Late . 
puis , Ms Perrin and moi impotent entrés streets them details , and I voudrais that foreign senators ouvrent toutes grandes their oreilles . 
unabated provision sert essentially at the foreign purposes of archives and historiques . 
the blunt évidence , you not prostituted not yet heard the archiviste and Oceans historians . 
why the particulars - he ? 
til has already veillé at their interests . 
she continues fell these termes : 
they are convaincus that , if we cannot awakened not series provision permettant at them agencies Woodlot , at them businesses and at them institutions of communiquer of the information at them companies historiques streets the but the préserver of them dossiers historiques , series information on grande value arranged détruite . 
the bill to Bill contains the foreign provisions prévoyant Act conservation of the information only also long that she is necessary yeas them purposes yeas lesquelles she has been recueillie , what who may heavily inciter them institutions at destroy the information whose thin not acclaimed more need . 
by example , series company of insurance with which you not feriez more affair serait heavily encouragée by unabated provision at éliminer the information you regarding when she never fell has more need . 
néanmoins , some information présentent a interest historic . 
a example utilisé streets them letters adressées at the minister is gerrymandering of them archives of health Compagnie of health Baie of Hudson , whose celle - ci has recently fact don . 
Détruisez your carte of credit for Position Baie , honourable senators . 
he remembered notional of them dossiers of health company . 
if you mettez streets the bill to Bill series provision who said that the information doit perhaps détruite when you not fell prostituted more need , who tiendra of them archives ? 
he remains at them Banking and at them compagnies of insurance Act possibility of démontrer that thin acclaimed notamment yeas function of conserver of them information pouvant revêtir series importance historic . 
she tente of apply justify by the foreign principles , but I cannot think not that confirms authorized acceptable . 
laissez - moi revert Act confirms . 
he remembered notional here to Affairs personnelles and the information personnels recueillis at the foreign purposes commerciales . 
til laisse hear that he could there wheel of bonnes reasons historiques yeas archiver all levels information sur Jean Chr or Act ses prédécesseurs or successeurs , that he remembered agisse of information sur ses dossiers of cartes of credit , the mortgage or the pharmacie . 
i dis that confirms not we regarde not . 
i dis that what type of information personnels not regarde human . 
the most , I dis that we devons understand Act mentalité , and I dis confirms with a certain respect . 
i hope always wheel a certain respect yeas Act science , there including yeas them Science payroll , but we devons understand Act mentalité of them experts fell Science payroll , the foreign archivistes and the all levels other . 
they voudraient we make conserver all levels papiers . 
they voudraient we make conserver all levels information , car they croient that these derniers are pertinents , also personnels or intimes soient - they . 
they not conviendront never that a bout of papier doive perhaps détruit , particularly apply he pertains something a who is jugé perhaps relatively important , today today or streets the history . 
they insistent Act the fact that these information their appartiennent . 
i dois add that some witnesses representative of them groups of advocacy of health life privacy and some défenseurs of them freedoms civiles étaient very evil préparés Act what standpoint . 
i cannot believe not that they specialist réfléchi at Act question . 
i ai asked at a witness the Government name of Murray Mollard , director of health British Columbia Civil Liberties Association , what that he fell pensait . 
dapper response has been : 
i cannot believe not that we ayons series Position official at what topic . 
he remembered can that confirms ait or non something something see with the debate fell surveillance Act the census . 
confirms not has nothing at see with the census . 
we parlons here to series question commerciale . 
he has said : 
mon notice spontané , what is that 20 years , what not is not very term . 
why 20 years , I cannot fell know nothing . 
and the add a little more later : 
perhaps - perhaps condolences colleagues acclaimed - they something something at add . 
i cannot fell takers not Act reason . 
vingt years , confirms not me seems not very term . 
i ai fact allusion yesterday at the témoignage of a lawyer of the name of Ian Lawson , the Day British - British , who is a spécialiste of the right to health life privacy and a parent of our colleague , the senator Kelly , what that , authorized said fell passant , I ai discovered after coup . 
he has said : 
perhaps - perhaps the regretterai - I , but the right at Act life privacy apply applies fell principle at series human vivante . 
i parle of health way of considérer them interests fell stake . 
fell fact , yeas what who is the Day procedure and the Government application of them rights at Act protection of health life privacy , I me request apply he serait possible that the interest of series human authorized fell stake if health human fell question is morte . 
réfléchissez at Act question , honourable senators . 
i cannot am not to agree avecM. Lawson Act what standpoint . 
he rereads has also toutes sortes of ramifications yeas them survivants of the individu fell question . 
however , business information personnels deviennent less délicats at the fur and at measure that the time proceeded . 
what is perhaps - perhaps true , honourable senators , but what not is not , at mon notice , series reason yeas communiquer of them information personnels at the topic of unabated human . 
she has said ensuite : 
he remembered notional of find breaching serait the giveaway approprié . 
i cannot am not opposée at a giveaway . 
he remembered can that a giveaway of 20 years nor authorized not suffisant . 
what not is not series Position of principle . 
yeas she , what is series question of time . 
fortunately , the commissioner at Act protection of health life privacy , Rand Phillips , has been much more direct . 
i you remind that he has been the partisan of the bill to Bill the most agressif and the most solide at subpoenas appeared the committee . 
i him ai asked to justify unabated provision . 
i vais you lire our exchange . 
i dis : 
... I you invite at justify fell principle Act provision of the bill to Bill according laquelle them information personnels recueillis at the foreign purposes commerciales arresting perhaps legally divulgués 20 years after Act death of health human that they concernent . 
justifiez ça yeas we . 
Koppel . Phillips : 
i vais try . 
unabated provision is Act same that celle who faces trouve streets Act bill actuelle Act Act protection of them information personnels . 
she has been écrite by the foreign people who , the blunt évidence , croient that the right at Act protection of them information personnels expire at Act death . 
the senator Murray : 
a jurist we took said Act same something today today . 
Koppel . Phillips : 
if what is the case and apply he remembered notional of a principle accepted fell right , I think that what is a principle regrettable . 
i adopte a standpoint of standpoint différent . 
i ai learned fell ma quality of Commissaire at Act protection of health life privacy that much of people apply inquiètent of them information personnels who palatable traîner at gauche and at droite after their death and the what that he advient of these information . 
he suffit simply the penser at the example of them efforts déployés by well - Provincial people at the topic of health safety and the Government inviolabilité of their documents personnels after their death . 
the hypothèse according laquelle them people cannot acclaimed not the right at Act protection of health life privacy of the fact that they are dead is , at mon notice , everything at fact unacceptable . 
commentator we the savons all levels two , bearer argument is soulevé streets a another context . 
til introduces now streets Act Act Act Act protection of them information personnels that 20 years after Act death of series human , business information personnels not are more protected . 
the senator Murray : 
he not there has aucune reason yeas appliquer confirms at the sector commercial commentator what Bill of Bill the fact , not is - what not ? 
Koppel . Phillips : 
i cannot fais not to distinction between them types of information . 
what who regardless what is what that the propriétaire fell think , Senator . 
you prostituted reason . 
he tangibly apply ask why . 
he has answered : 
til me has said that royal provision whose you prostituted spoke guardian series rule of archivage standard . 
blunt divulgation should still adhere the rest of the code . 
by example , health divulgation of information personnels doit perhaps introductory at them purposes yeas lesquelles these information acclaimed been recueillis . 
he is obvious that the minister is streets the mistake or that he not has not including ma question . 
if them information are recueillis yeas series request for carte of credit or the mortgage or series ordonnance at Act pharmacie , what is series something . 
he is question here to health divulgation of information at them purposes of archivage yeas of them purposes statistics or yeas of them recherches érudites or blunt another something of the kind . 
i cannot think not that he ait well including health issue that I soulevais . 
honourable senators , I ai said at several occasions that , according moi , the government and the Parliament who adoptera what Bill of Bill pourront apply fell enorgueillir . 
fell effect , he élargit Act scope of health Act Act Act protection of them information personnels at them information personnels recueillis streets the sector commercial private . 
however , health provision permettant Act divulgation 20 years after Act death of the intéressé is , according moi , series grave lacune of series measure legislative by elsewhere excellente . 
human not has avoided defend unabated provision fell apply appuyant Act to them principles , and I think that she is indéfendable . 
we savons all that royal protection of health life privacy has inexorablement lost the Government terrain at the incorrigible of them years . 
what is the experience that we awakened connue until at now . 
what is the meaning of health provision that I veux make éliminer of the bill to Bill No. 
the right to recueillir and the communiquer of the information not should not the emporter Act all levels other rights . 
we pouvons autoriser the adoption of unabated provision and espérer that she arranged always utilisée of way responsible and streets the respect to them rights legal fell apparence non existants of them persons who faces are éteintes , or still we pouvons intervene now and protect commentator we the devrions Act life privacy of them people fell what who pertains them information purement personnels recueillis by their banquiers , their lenders hypothécaires , their pharmaciens and other . 
i hope that we allons intervene and make disparaître unabated provision of the bill to Bill No. 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I dois you inform that , if the Honourable Senator Kirby prend now Act parole , his speech arranged assimilable at a debate on clôture . 
the senator Kirby : 
honourable senators , I allais me express at the topic of the amendment but , whereupon that he fell authorized , I aurais proposed the adjournment of the debate . 
if I ai well including health procedure , what is the amendment and non Act motion regarding health third reading who is at the study . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
you pouvez intervene at the topic of the amendment . 
the senator Kirby : 
honourable senators , étant rose the character instructif , réfléchi and dynamic habituel of the intervention of the senator Murray , I cannot voudrais not there respond to fashion interrompue bearer after - afternoon and I préférerais prendre Act parole tomorrow afternoon - afternoon . 
i move : adjournment of the debate . 
the Honourable Douglas Roche : 
honourable senators , I réclamais Act parole he rereads has a instant afin of ask Act leave of poser series question at the senator Murray . 
Êtes - you to agree ? 
his Honour the Speaker : 
is - what the agreement , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Roche : 
unabated question pertains the excellente allocution that has prononcée the senator Murray and yeas laquelle I the thank . 
she reprenait and développait them termes of series letter that the government albertain Partnerships adressée le16 November at the chairman of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology . 
he remembered notional of series letter of vive protestation against the bill to Bill C - 6 . 
i cannot vais not Act lire , but I am disposé at Act make circulation . 
she never is not rédigée streets them two languages , but I am disposé at Act make circulation if a senator not the has not yet reçue . 
bref , the government ' s Alberta réclame that what Bill of Bill authorized réexaminé and that til there supprime them sections who empiètent Act Act jurisdiction provinciale yeas give the time at them small and moyennes businesses of apply prepare commentator he convient at Act implementation fell implementation of the bill to Bill and yeas permettre Act resuming the foreign consultations visant at ensure Act protection of them information personnels . 
what is fell substance what that demand the Alberta . 
health way of make habituelle is the subpoenas appeared a committee during that he examine the bill to Bill fell question . 
i cannot veux not me engager streets series attest discussion Act Act reason yeas laquelle them representatives of the government ' s Alberta not acclaimed not comparu appeared the committee . 
he seems that they aient présumé that the committee has commitments fell considération Act letter du16 November , and what is perhaps - perhaps well the case . 
the Honourable Senator Murray think he that the amendment that he complements of introduce - and I ai listened carefully when he fell has exposé the character limitatif - répond of manner adéquate at them objections soulevées by the government ' s Alberta ? 
sinon , that devrions - we make at what topic at unabated phase - ci ? 
we awakened series province which door a tel interest at the bill to Bill that til not should not mood outre at ses points of standpoint fell not them prenant not suffisamment fell considération before that the Senate not adopte the bill to Bill fell third reading . 
the senator Murray : 
premièrement , I cannot believe not that the government ' s Alberta apply authorized préoccupé of health provision that I cherche at make supprimer of the bill to Bill No. 
deuxièmement , I dois say at mon hon. colleague that , during the debate on second reading , I ai exprimé the opinion of a profane , at prendre yeas what that confirms vaut , fell disant that the bill to Bill represents a fiscal valable and légitime of the power to the government federal fell matière of Commerce . 
troisièmement , series opinion more autorisée fell Act matière has been exprimée the another day appeared the committee parM. Tassé , a former Subcommittee - Minister of health Howe , who is the notice that the bill to Bill is streets them limits of them powers of the Parliament federal . 
quatrièmement , the bill to Bill comporte series provision prévoyant that unabated measure not apply appliquera not at the trade interprovincial of series province which , streets a giveaway of three years , adopte a bill to Bill " essentially similaire " fell matière of protection of health life privacy . 
cinquièmement , well that all levels procureurs généraux of the Canada , at what that I sache , aient asked he rereads has long that the bill to Bill authorized retiré yeas them reasons énoncées by the government ' s Alberta , confirms not apply is not done . 
the foreign representatives of the government ' s Ontario are flocked appeared the committee express their reserves at the hook of various aspects of the bill to Bill , but they acclaimed refused to express series opinion or the affirmer that the Ontario has series Position Act Act constitutionality of the bill to Bill No. 
when til their has asked specifically what that they fell pensaient , they acclaimed simply responded that what guardian là matière at discussion . 
a witness heard by the committee has déclaré that royal constitutionality of the bill to Bill serait inévitablement contestée appeared them courts , and I believe that the future him donnera reason . 
the senator Roche : 
i thank the senator Murray yeas unabated response . 
he has said that the problem could perhaps réglé if them provinces adoptaient of them laws essentially similaires at celle of the government federal . 
the Alberta has richly mentioned what standpoint streets Act letter fell disant that , puisque the expression " essentially similaire " no guardian not définie streets Act bill fédérale , she guardian too générale yeas permettre that the foreign laws correspondantes soient adoptées . 
the senator Murray : 
honourable senators , I cannot conteste not the argument soulevé by the government ' s Alberta at the topic of the character enough General of the expression " essentially similaire " . 
however , I souligne that royal Gotcha province which has series bill comparable is the Quebec . 
the minister of the Industry , parlant at the name of the government , has already indiqué that he jugeait Act bill to the Quebec essentially similaire at Act bill fédérale . 
understandings at them other provinces , thin acclaimed three years yeas consult and discuss . 
i believe savoir that the Alberta is fell train of rédiger a bill to Bill No. 
unabated province not is not laissée streets the noir . 
she can discuss at fond of health issue with the government federal , what that she fact . 
the afternoon the souvenir that I Custody of series précédente career , health function Public albertaine account the foreign advisors extremely competent streets the field of them relations fédérales - Provincial . 
i serais porté at croire that he not is not inimaginable that the Alberta circulation Evidence of good volonté and rédige a bill to Bill adapté at ses needs who authorized essentially similaire at Act bill fédérale . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Kirby , the debate is adjourned . ) 
health Act Act the casier judicial 
bill to Bill Amend - Third Reading 
perhaps honourable senators , we connaissons fort well now Act seams of the bill to Bill C - 7 , who is series importante measure . 
we fell awakened already been saisis at the surveillance of health session précédente . 
since that he has been presented Act first once , the bill to Bill has grandement profité of the work of the committee Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional , who has overburdened at the day to graves flaws streets the bill to Bill No. 
the Solicitor General has answered with series largesse of mind and series rapidité admirables fell élaborant of them amendments visant at improve the bill to Bill No. 
streets his wording Present , the bill to Bill constitue , at mon sense , a ajout very useful at the right Heritage . 
yeas the essentiel , unabated measure contribuera at Act protection of them children and the other persons vulnerable who palatable perhaps Act proie of prédateurs sexuels . 
honourable senators , he is important to noter that he rereads fingertips of importantes sauvegardes fell what who pertains them rights of them persons réhabilitées . 
we prenons very at the sérieux the integrity of the system of réhabilitation . 
the access at them information personnels Act the offender arranged limité at them policiers autorisés and at the staff to them agencies chargés of appliquer Act bill . 
the postulant devra sign a formulaire by lequel he consent at what that the snakes vérifie auprès of health section générale of them archives criminelles apply he rereads has streets the fichier automatisé series indication permettant of determine apply he existe at his topic a file or a relevé of series condamnation . 
the formulaire of consent indiquera that the name of unabated human consigned streets Act section normally scellée and contenant them names of persons réhabilitées . 
the access at unabated indication not arranged possible that fell entrant a certain code streets the ordinateur . 
what are the importantes sauvegardes . 
fell outre , thanks at the work of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional , the bill to Bill précise now that he remembered applies only at them persons reconnues guilty of series offence sexual who are réhabilitées . 
fell what who pertains them other offences , business dossiers of réhabilitation resteront scellés . 
transport définitions data streets the bill to Bill acclaimed been grandement améliorées . 
the bill to Bill derogation now Act definition d' " children " and the " persons vulnerable " . 
Étant rose that what Bill has been supported by all levels parties streets the another place , the same that by foreign ministers provinciaux and territorial of health Howe and Oceans authorities chargées of the application of them laws everywhere at the Canada , I believe that we devons the appuyer . 
( Act motion is adoptée and the bill to Bill amendé is read series third once and passed . ) 
the Estimates for them Estimates for 1999 - 2000 
passage of the report of the committee of them finances nationales Act the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) 
the Senate proceeded at the study of the second report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them finances nationales ( Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) , 1999 - 2000 ) , presented at the Senate Committee 2 December 1999 . 
the Honourable Anne C . Cools ( au name of the senator Murray ) move : 
that the report authorized adopted . 
perhaps honourable senators , I query parler very briefly , now , the unabated motion which revêt Act more grande importance and , by essence , the Government second report of our committee of them finances nationales Act the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) , 1999 - 2000 . 
transport honourable senators constateront that what report is flavour and that he contains the foreign details importants Act the study of our committee . 
i screwed that the report is the meilleur tribute that til puisse tribute at the committee . 
the committee of them finances nationales is chargé of examiner them forecasts budgétaires yeas the Senate ; he assistance the Senate at remplir ses obligations parliamentarians , who consistent at examiner them forecasts initiales and révisées of spending of the government . 
the committee apply is réuni the Tuesday 23 November 1999 afin of entendreM. Richard Neville etM. Andrew Lieff , representatives of the Council of the Treasury . 
these two officials acclaimed fact Evidence of health later grande opening streets their testimony and they acclaimed responded at them questions of them senators with much of soin and the attention . 
what last we took informés that he quittait ses duties actuelles yeas devenir comptrollership General Deputy . 
he we took also informés that he prendrait ses nouvelles duties at the beginning of December . 
i think that I parle at the name of all levels senators who siègent at the committee and the all levels senators fell General when I exprime our gratitude and our appréciation yeas ses contributions and yeas the assistance that he we took apportée at the committee at the surveillance of them years , and I think that I parle also at the name of all levels senators when I him souhaite the most grandfather success streets the future . 
honourable senators , I voudrais also saisir unabated opportunity yeas thank all levels members of the committee yeas what that I estimated perhaps their study assidue of the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) , and I them thank the their work acharné . 
i voudrais also thank the senator Lowell Murray , who has guidé of series main ferme , fair and experte the committee streets ses deliberations . 
i voudrais also fell profiter yeas souhaiter Act welcome , at the Breast of the committee , at two nouveaux senators , authorized the senator Finnerty and the senator Finestone . 
Mrs. the senator Finestone me informe that she never Partnerships not the intent of demeurer at what committee , but since that she has attended at dapper first meeting , she has conclu that he remembered agissait of a bon committee where sit . 
confirms said , honourable senators , I you urge at adopt what report . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée , and the report is passed . ) 
bill to Bill facilitant Act prise of certaines decisions médicales 
second reading - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Carstairs , seconded by the Honourable Senator pin , Refer at Act second reading of the bill to Bill S - 2 , Act facilitant Act prise of decisions médicales legitimate relatively at them traitements of survival and at the treatment of health douleur . - ( 
the Honourable Senator Lavoie - Roux ) 
the Honourable Rose - Marie Losier - Cool : 
honourable senators , I request Act leave of parler at the phase of health second reading of the bill to Bill S - 2 , inscrite at the Order of the day at the name of the senator Lavoie - Roux . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , health leave is - she granted ? 
Dex Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Losier - Cool : 
health démographie of them needs fell matière of health is , without doubt , fell evolution constante . 
since 1997 , 40p. cent of them Canadians and the foreign Canadiennes âgés of at the least 30 years are them soignants of at the least one member of their family . 
bye the Canada , a adulte passera , fell average , more of years at soigner a parent that at élever a child . 
fell tenant account the Government fact of our population always vieillissante , he is time , honourable senators , that series initiative telle what Bill of Bill authorized congruent at the Canada . 
today today , I query attirer your attention Act the article 6 of what Bill of Bill , who VI at coordonner , fell collaboration with them authorities Provincial and Oceans associations of them professionals of health health , the établissement of lines directrices nationales relatively at the abstention and the discontinuance of them traitements of survival , at the treatment of health douleur and at them care palliative , at promote and at encourage the education of the grandfather public regarding the treatment of health douleur by foreign afford médicaux and at improve Act training of them professionals of health health fell what who pertains the treatment of health douleur and Oceans care palliative . 
honourable senators , he incombe at the government federal - établir of them standards who dirigeront series quality of care palliative analyzed that series accessibility at these care yeas all levels Canadians and Oceans Canadiennes who fell acclaimed need . 
transport care palliative devraient perhaps intégrés at them other services of health and idéalement , they devraient perhaps sensiblement them mêmes of series region at the another . 
commentator the has underlined the Dr. James McGregor , the Government Ontario Palliative Care Association , lors of them meetings of the committee sénatorial Special Act the euthanasia and the assistance at the suicide , and I quote : 
he incombe at Act society , by the congruent of the government , the foreign planifications of them care of health , the foreign agencies professionals and the foreign professionals of health health , the offer them resources nécessaires yeas ensure a system of soutien intensif at the intent of them mourants and the their families . 
bye unabated end , he tangibly développer the sector of them care palliative of way at garantir that foreign skills voulues are fingertips disponibles and accessibles at all . 
he is malheureux that the foreign Canadians and Canadiennes continuent of mourir streets Act souffrance because that they not acclaimed not access at these skills . 
honourable senators , the établissement of standards nationales fell matière of care palliative répondrait at them needs of them more malades of our society . 
i query souligner the importance of the initiative of the senator Carstairs , who aurait yeas but the promote series approach intégrée and the tribute efficaces and accessibles them services of care palliative at travers the Canada . 
transport care palliative are conçus yeas respond non only at them needs physiques but also psychologiques , Cultural , Cultural , émotionnels and spirituels of each human and the dapper family . 
transport care palliative aident them persons malades fell end of life at vivre the time that he their rest streets the confort and health dignity . 
they are précieux fell end of life and at the foreign stades more précoces of health illness . 
according a section of the Globe Mail Mail paru the 7 December 1999 , four Canadians Act five estiment that foreign care at domicile devraient make part of a program of care of health gratuit and universel . 
the poll indiquait also that the quart of them malades paient already of them fees considérables and that a patient Act nine who has need to assistance not receives not to care at domicile , fault of resources Projections . 
health plupart of them persons who acclaimed responded at the poll acclaimed déclaré that royal quality of them care laissait at désirer , car the government has imposed of them limits Act the number authorized to hours of care gratuits and that thin not specialist not them afford to apply offer series assistance Supplementary . 
confirms said , we devrions valoriser and tribute accessibles at the most grandfather number possible for citizens of them care palliative of quality who répondent at their needs . 
i query citer commentator example the Dr. Ferguson , Chief of the program of hospital extra - mural of the Brunswick - Brunswick , yeas illustrer Act necessity of institutionnaliser them care palliative streets the framework of them services of health at the Canada . 
i quote : Dr. Ferguson : 
streets well - Provincial Jurisdiction , business care at domicile apply are développés more or less streets the framework of a bill or the one program . 
chez we , at the Brunswick - Brunswick , they Cutbacks part of the system . 
we aimons croire that we awakened series approach différente and we cherchons at make fell sorte that they soient utilisés more efficacement . 
voilà our objective , fell everything case . 
i am fière that ma province of the Brunswick - Brunswick authorized fell avance streets the development of them care palliative at the Canada . 
i souhaite that with the appui of the Senate and the Day House of them Commons , we pourrons adopt the telles standards at travers the country . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , if nil another senator not widow prendre Act parole , bearer section paving demeurer at the Order of the day at the name of the senator Lavoie - Roux . 
section canadienne of the church morave of amérique 
bill to Bill private visant at modify Act Act to incorporation - Third Reading 
the Honourable Senator Corbin ) . 
( Act motion is adoptée and the bill to Bill , read series third once , is passed . ) 
transport travaux of the Senate 
Points at the rules - Points of health Ruling 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , before that we cannot passions at Act motion of adjournment , yesterday , I ai invoqué the rules with the senator Kinsella referred the topic of the acceptabilité of a report presented by a member of a committee which , seems he , not guardian not authorized at the make at the name of the committee . 
i avais cru understand that His Honour rendrait dapper decision là - dessus , car the committee of them Affairs Foreign has already convoqué series meeting yeas discuss the Day question figurant streets what report . 
i veux me assure that the Points at the rules is réglé before that what committee not entreprenne the study of a report which him has been renvoyé . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , what who faces déroule at the Breast of them committees not relève not to ma jurisdiction . 
what are them committees eux - mêmes who décident of their functioning . 
however , fell what who pertains Act Presented of Reports , I you veterinary at the paragraph 97 ( 1 ) , who said : 
the report of a committee particular doit perhaps presented by the chairman of the committee or by a senator désigné by the chairman . 
when a report is presented , I cannot ai not the power to me ask if the senator ' présentant has been désigné yeas what make . 
i tiens yeas acquis that the chairman of the committee ' has désigné . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
the exchange of yesterday with the senator Tkachuk , Vice - chairman of the committee , has révélé that the committee not Partnerships not désigné the senator Hervieux - Payette yeas introduce the report . 
the Honourable Leo E . Kolber : 
honourable senators , I devais introduce the report Act week dernière , but til me has said to wait . 
i aurais avoided the make today today , but not yesterday . 
we souhaitions that he authorized presented yesterday . 
analyzed , commentator I believe fell wheel the right , I ai chargé the senator Hervieux - Payette of the make . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
the rules is very clear . 
what not is not the chairman of the committee which délègue what authority , but the committee . 
his Honour complements of citer the paragraph 97 ( 1 ) the Government Rules . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
the rules said that what is the chairman who doit désigner his remplaçant . 
i répète the text of the article : 
the report of a committee particular doit perhaps presented by the chairman of the committee or by a senator désigné by the chairman . 
commentator the chairman has said that he Partnerships rose his Authorized , the affair échappe at mon autorité . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
honourable senators , I cannot veux not retarder the study of the bill to Bill No. 
i présente condolences excuses at the senator Kolber yeas wheel suggéré that his committee not Partnerships can - perhaps not respecté the rules . 
health second question who Partnerships been soulevée guardian of savoir how transférer a report , during Senators Affairs courantes , the Government Senate at a another committee without that the Senate ait his word at say fell Act matière . 
if them senators préfèrent that I fell parle with the Speaker after these deliberations afin that we puissions mood at the other travaux at 3:15 1:30 30 , I me ferais a plaisir of ask at the senator Hays of introduce Act motion of adjournment . 
however , he is at mon notice important that all levels honourable senators familiar exactly Act procedure suivie and that she their authorized expliquée when she is yeas eux , commentator what is here mon case , source of confusion . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
if them honourable senators are loans at me écouter , I vais try to éclaircir the second élément of the Points at the rules . 
the history has débuté Act week dernière , and I ai quoted them Journals of the Senate to the 24 November , regarding health decision prise by the Senate at the topic of the bill to Bill S - 3 : 
the bill to Bill is Robbie read Act second once . 
the Honourable Senator Hays move , supported by the Honourable Senator Mercier , that the bill to Bill authorized renvoyé at the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Banking and the Government trade . 
after debate , 
with Act leave of the Senate and pursuant àle section 30 of the rules , health motion is modifiée and apply bed commentator suit : 
that the bill to Bill authorized renvoyé at the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Banking and the Government trade and at the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign . 
health motion , telle that modifiée , implementation at them Senators , is adoptée . 
honourable senators , what is là series procedure fort inhabituelle . 
he not between certes not streets them rules of the art of Refer a same bill to Bill at two committees . 
after everything , how apply there prend - til yeas aboutir at what outcome ? 
by conséquent , if I ai well including , the bill to Bill has been renvoyé at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Banking and the Government trade . 
the committee ' has examined and nil amendment not has been proposed . 
the committee has presented a report at the topic of the bill to Bill No. 
i dois you Refer at the paragraph 97 ( 4 ) the Government Rules , who précise what who suit : 
when a committee fact report of a bill to Bill without amendment , ledit report is considéré commentator adopted without aucune motion ; the senator who parraine the bill to Bill move Robbie that royal third reading fell authorized introductory a another day . 
however , commentator I viens of the lire , the Senate Partnerships ordonné the referred to the bill to Bill at the another committee . 
analyzed , a committee rose fact report of the bill to Bill without proposals for amendment , I ai conclu that he not fallait not mood at Act third reading of the bill to Bill because that he capitalists still perhaps renvoyé at the another committee . 
what is what that the Senate has decided . 
he Partnerships been prévu of the Refer at the another committee , and what is what that Tisserant Act motion . 
i ignore how til aurait avoided agir otherwise at the topic of the report account tenu of health decision prise by the Senate Act week précédente . 
i avais them mains liées by Act decision to the Senate to Refer the bill to Bill at two committees . 
i cannot takers not how til aurait avoided agir otherwise yeas appliquer Act decision to the Senate . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
he aurait been préférable , at the moment of the tabling of the report and at the Appeal of health third reading , that the Senate dise , yeas perhaps conséquent with dapper decision : " Le bill to Bill not arranged not read series third once . 
we awakened decided to the Refer at a committee . " 
i ai strokes the impression that royal Ruling has court - circuité the Senate . 
yeas some , what not is that a detail insignifiant , but I think that he regardless that he continues to revert at them senators ' determine what that he adviendra of a bill to Bill or the one report . 
i comprends Act situation streets laquelle them senators ' s side ministériel acclaimed overburdened Your Honour , puisque what are eux who acclaimed decided to Refer the bill to Bill at two committees . 
the senator Hays has tiré Act situation at the clear the second day . 
each once that foreign senators ' s side ministériel suggéreront of Refer a same bill to Bill at two committees , business honourable senators arresting perhaps assurés that we serons them premiers at us there opposer . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , puisque he we rest few minutes before the lever Act postponement , and puisque what is moi who am the author of unabated nouvelle procedure , series procedure who promet at mon notice of very well fonctionner , I voudrais profiter of the opportunity yeas say few mots at what topic . 
i ai fact the objet of criticism constructives of health share of condolences colleagues and the Your Honour , analyzed that the Day share of the another author , pourrais - I say , the unabated procedure , well that I doubt that he fell accepte Act paternité . 
i veux that the snakes comprenne well that royal situation is inhabituelle . 
however , the instruction donnée by the Senate is suffisamment claire , the sorte that the Speaker : has well interprétée . 
what is là where réside the risk of confusion . 
health way whose we , at the Senate , awakened unsuccessfully of régler the problem , what fut , at ma suggestion , the stipuler streets the Order that the bill to Bill authorized renvoyé at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Banking and the Government trade , what who has been done , and that series once that what committee aurait terminé his review , what who faces is done , the bill to Bill authorized renvoyé at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign yeas that he the examine at his tour . 
health solution adoptée not paving however not until at say how the Senate doit apply preoccupation of health issue of manner at avoid the problem of procedure that présentent of them reports successifs . 
health solution that we took Proposed His Honour me paraît good . 
the instruction at bearer regard doit perhaps considérée commentator a Order Special of the Senate proposed with Act leave of the Sénatle 24 November and prévoyant that , nonobstant the paragraph 97 ( 4 ) the Government Rules , the bill to Bill is considéré renvoyé at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign . 
confirms diminishes exactly the instruction that the Senate has donnée at them two committees which acclaimed been chargés of examiner the bill to Bill No. 
by conséquent , honourable senators , I believe that unabated way of procéder constitue Act meilleure solution and that she fonctionnera . 
i comprends them concerns of the senator Lynch - Staunton and the other honourable , who craignent that unabated way of make no authorized not acceptable . 
however , what is series solution that we awakened essayée . 
i cannot am not convaincu that we the essaierons at nouveau . 
whereupon that he fell authorized , the afternoon what that I ai said and what that His Honour has proposed yeas avoid them problems suscités by unabated affair at the Senate , I believe that unabated way of procéder fonctionnera . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I attire your attention Act the article 101 of the rules , who said rejecting : 
the chairman of the committee doit sign or parafer a copy imprimé of the bill to Bill where them amendments are clearly inscrits ... 
i know that what is Act practice suivie , but I cannot arrive not at find the article of the rules which says that a bill to Bill whose report is done without proposals for amendment doit also perhaps signed . 
whereupon that he fell authorized , yesterday , the bill to Bill is arrivé non signed Act the office of the Clerk . 
we awakened posé of them questions and he has been renvoyé at the senator Hervieux - Payette , who the has signed . 
i me request if health rule énoncée at the article 101 of the rules , who said that the chairman of the committee doit sign the bill to Bill , run applies also at a bill to Bill rapporté without proposals for amendment . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
yeas respond at the Honourable Senator Kinsella , I ignore apply he existe series provision of the rules which the précise . 
the afternoon what that I know , and what is the usage , the chairman of the committee signe the bill to Bill when he is tabled Act the Bureau . 
i cannot takers not them bills of Bill when they are présentés . 
i am course that the Clerk vérifie apply they are signés . 
apply they not the are not , I am course that the Clerk contacte the chairman of the committee . 
the senator Kinsella : 
the chairman of the committee guardian absent . 
what is therefore a another member of the committee which the has signed . 
the senator Kolber : 
honourable senators , I me ferai a plaisir of the sign . 
the senator Hays : 
the senator Kinsella has done remarquer what who is without doubt a vice . 
health suggestion of the senator Kolber me paraît good . 
the senator Kinsella : 
i cherche sideshow at protect them rights of health minorité fell bearer place . 
health plupart of them chairmen of Committee are the foreign senators appartenant at the party gouvernemental . 
few - uns are issus of our side , everything commentator the are the elsewhere them vice - chairs . 
fell the absence of the chairman , what is the vice - chairman who should agir at dapper place . 
the senator Kolber : 
the article 101 pertains a bill to Bill who has been amended . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
we voulons fair that foreign senators ' s party gouvernemental respectent Act minorité . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
he serait without doubt useful that the Clerk précise Act something and envoie a message at all levels greffiers of committees afin of dispel blunt confusion . 
i voudrais now aborder Act question soulevée by the Honourable Senator Lynch - Staunton , who has said that he aurait préféré that authorized appelée Act third reading of the bill to Bill No. 
if we avions fact confirms , we serions allés at the encontre of health decision to the Senate , according laquelle the bill to Bill capitalists perhaps renvoyé at two committees . 
when a bill to Bill is passed without proposals for amendment , he not there has not to discussion . 
til doit mood directly at the phase of health third reading . 
auquel case , we cannot aurions not avoided Refer the bill to Bill whose he question at the another committee , commentator the Senate fell Partnerships decided . 
what is là Act difficulty appeared laquelle we ourselves trouvions . 
honourable senators , pursuant at the Order of the Senate , commentator he is 15 1:30 30 , I quitte the fauteuil . 
( the Senate apply ajourne at 14 hours tomorrow . ) 
debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
2e Session , Session Session , 
volume 138 , Issue 19 
the Thursday 9 December 1999 
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker 
table of them Contents 
STATEMENTS STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
the Ontario 
health Act Act Act restructuring régionale - Possibility proposal of déclarer Ottawa officially bilingue - Ex refusal of the Prime Minister ontarien 
transport Fisheries and Oceans Oceans 
health viabilité of health fishing at the salmon Act Act Coast west - Possibility necessity of series assistance to emergency - Possibility grève of health hunger of Dan Edwards 
doctors of the world 
health Journée international of them rights of the man 
transport Fisheries and Oceans 
closure of them pêcheries of salmon red of the fleuve Fraser - Program of remboursement of them fees of licences - Grève of health hunger of Dan Edwards 
the Ontario 
health Act Act Act restructuring régionale - LE refusal of the government ontarien of désigner Ottawa commentator city bilingue - Possibility Position of health Federation of them communaut francophones and accadienne 
health law regarding health restructuring régionale - Ex refusal of déclarer officially Ottawa city bilingue 
health law of implementation fell implementation of the agreement Act Act Station spatiale international civile 
visitors of Gallery 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
transport travaux of the Senate 
depository of the guide at the intent of them senators Act Act condition of them persons disabilities 
the Quebec 
transport advice scolaires linguistic - Modification of the article 93 of health Constitution - ô of the Prime report of the committee Joint Special 
the décret tabled pursuant at Act Act Act them transport at the Canada autorisant some carriers aériens majeurs at negotiate and at conclude blunt entente conditionnelle - Considered of the second report of the committee 
health Act to implementation fell implementation of the Agreement Act Act Station spatiale international civile 
report of the committee 
bill to Bill of 1999 Act Act implementation fell implementation of conventions fiscales 
report of the committee of them Affairs Foreign 
Economy Internal , Budgets and Administration 
Presented of the second report of the committee 
review of health regulators 
Presented of the Prime report of the committee Joint Standing 
Custody and right to visit to them children 
depository of the Prime report of the committee Joint Special 
routine Foreign 
notice of Motion visant at autoriser the committee at Extend Act date of Presented of the report final of the study relative at Act Modified of the mandate of the Organization of the Traité of the Atlantic North 
the Ontario 
health Act Act Act restructuring régionale - Ex refusal of the government ontarien of adopt Act recommendation visant at make the Ottawa series city bilingue - Notice of inquiry 
the Senate 
notice of Motion confirmant Act procedure of Assent Royal 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
transport transport 
the aliénation of quais publics - Possibility cession of the wharfinger of the island Thetis at Act bunch indienne of the island Kuper 
health defence national 
transport problems mécaniques of them frégates of patrouille 
the replacement of health flotte of helicopters Sea King - Ex moment of the announcement 
transport Affairs payroll , business Science and health technology 
the bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and the foreign documents électroniques - Ex Opposition of the government albertain 
the Environment 
the announcement by the Alberta - Speaker intention of autoriser the treatment of déchets dangerous importés at the centre of treatment of Swan Hills - Possibility Position of the government 
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire 
health crisis chez them céréaliculteurs of the West - Réponse of the government 
answers delayed at the foreign questions Oral 
health Howe 
the cost of the program of registration of them weapons at gun - Possibility responsibility to the minister 
health defence national 
the replacement of the parc of helicopters Sea King - Possibility request for copy of the énoncé of them needs 
visitor of Gallery 
orders OF THE 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
third reading 
speech of the Trône 
motion of Adopted of the Adresse fell response - Continued of the debate 
bill to Bill facilitant Act prise of certaines decisions médicales 
second reading - Poursuite of the debate 
bibliothèque of the Parliament 
passage of the Prime report of the committee Joint Standing 
languages Languages 
passage of the Prime report of the committee Joint Standing 
review of health policy canadienne antidrogues 
motion autorisant Act training of a committee sénatorial Special - Continued of the debate 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
motion demandant at the committee of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology of scinder the bill to Bill fell two - Retrait of the article 
health freedom religieuse fell China fell report with them pactes internationaux of them Nations Nations 
inquiry - Continued of the debate 
the Estimates for them Estimates for 1999 - 2000 
notice of Motion Convey Authorized at the committee of them finances nationales of And them Budgets of them Estimates - Motion to amendment ? Stands of the debate 
the Sommet of health Francophonie 
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate ? Maintien of the article 
transport rights of health human and Oceans conflits multiethniques 
inquiry - adjournment of the debate 
bibliothèque of the Parliament 
withdrawal of health motion Convey Authorized at the committee Joint Standing of sit during Senators sittings of the Senate 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
motion Convey Authorized at the committee of And the état of the system of health - Adjourned of the debate 
adjournment 
the SENATE 
the Thursday 9 December 1999 
health postponement is ouverte at 14 hours , the Speaker étant at the fauteuil . 
prayers . 
the Ontario 
health Act Act Act restructuring régionale - Possibility proposal of déclarer Ottawa officially bilingue - Ex refusal of the Prime Minister ontarien 
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier : 
honourable senators , I cannot am not surprised to health decision to the government ontarien deM. Harris of refuser Act recommendation of his expert - council fell matière of restructuring municipale or régionale . 
what is the behaviour habituel of M Harris and company when he remembered notional of them rights of them francophones . 
he rereads has more of 40,000 years that I me occupies of unabated question , activist at the level scolaire , the Day health , the foreign services Cultural and now , at the level municipal . 
i ai always been présent and I ai the intent of continue at make mon work . 
laissez - moi you say that royal question is loin of Welfare réglée . 
yesterday , Rand Harris affirmait , according them media , that he Partnerships much fact yeas them Canadians French - Government Ontario . 
he not said not that at each once , composite of them gains obtenus streets them domaines of the education , the Day health and the foreign Affairs municipales him acclaimed been imposés by foreign courts or by the opinion Public . 
bye maintes occasions , he has quêté of them fund at the government federal yeas financer these changes . 
honourable senators , we utiliserons toutes them measures at our provision yeas make fell sorte that the government ontarien deM. Harris loses of opinion , the position and désigne bilingue Act nouvelle city of Ottawa , health Capital of the country . 
soyons positifs , honourable senators , laissons Act nouvelle administration municipale decide to them elements of the bilingualism of unabated administration . 
honourable senators , we utiliserons of them measures incitatives . 
we him recommanderons of corriger his affront at the equity and at Act justice , afin of adhere the equality of them two languages Languages streets Act Capital of the country . 
Koppel . Harris joue a stake dangerous fell insultant them Canadians French and gives analyzed at certaines persons series condition gagnante . 
enough them folies ! 
dear Harris , we cannot impotent not impressionnés ! 
transport Fisheries and Oceans Oceans 
health viabilité of health fishing at the salmon Act Act Coast west - Possibility necessity of series assistance to emergency - Possibility grève of health hunger of Dan Edwards 
the Honourable Pat Carney : 
honourable senators , unabated week , a man who risk dapper life yeas help them residents of them communities coastal of health British - British guardian streets mon office yeas ask the assistance to the government federal and the Government Senate . 
dan Edwards , a pêcheur of the island of Vancouver , based Act Coast west , fell is at dapper quarante - fifth journée of grève of health hunger yeas attirer the attention Act our communities coastal who are dévastées économiquement and socialement by the collapse unabated year - Provincial montaisons of salmon red of the fleuve Fraser . 
Koppel . Edwards has rencontré them senators Ray Perrault etGerry Comeau and moi - even yeas describe his exaspération . 
everyone what that Dan réclame yeas allegiances a term at dapper grève of health hunger , what is that the government federal négocie with the government dd and Oceans stakeholders yeas find series way of venir fell assistance at them people of them communities which fell acclaimed a need if Tisserant . 
until at now , business appropriation fédéraux are destinés at inciter them people at quitter the sector of health fishing and non at help them fishermen who éprouvent of them difficulties at apply fell sortir . 
honourable senators , he not there fingertips not to fishing viable Act Act Coast west if all levels fishermen rose them skills and the experience nécessaires are forcés of quitter the sector of health fishing at Act subsequently of the program of rachat . 
he tangibly of them fishermen yeas wheel series fishing viable . 
the Auditor General is the agreement with Dan . 
streets his report on most récent , he has done allusion regularly at Act necessity of soutenir series fishing viable . 
he has déclaré : 
the challenge that repositories relever them gestionnaires of the Department of them Fisheries and the foreign Oceans BNA at conserver them stocks actuels and at restore ceux who are faibles , everything fell now Act viabilité of them fisheries . 
he faudra that the Ministère adapte his regime of management at the nouvelles réalités and obtienne the assentiment and the appui of them stakeholders apply he wants réussir . 
he has also underlined Act necessity of : 
... résoudre them problems liés at Act consultation afin of improving them reports with them stakeholders and the create éventuellement of them partnerships yeas partager them responsibilities associées at Act management and compenser them costs . 
what is what that Dan Edwards request . 
until at now , the government federal not cesse of respond at them demandes of assistance to them communities that the program of 400 million for $ announced the year dernière yeas make opposite at Act crisis touchant the salmon coho permettra also the résoudre the problem of the salmon red unabated year . 
seen that the regime of insurance - employment not assistance not them fishermen who never acclaimed not avoided pêcher , strength is at them fishermen aboriginal and non aboriginal of apply fell equation at the assistance social . 
telle is Act situation streets them communities where , unabated year , the foreign fishermen acclaimed invested , streets some cases , the foreign dizaines of thousands of $ fell engins of fishery and fell fees of démarrage , and confirms , yeas series fishing who never gave not strokes instead . 
dan represents series coalition baptisée Fraser River Sockeye Crisis Committee . 
she regroupe them communities coastal who crient famine fault of assistance . 
dan has lost 50 books since the beginning of health grève of health hunger . 
he is physiquement affaibli , but not has nothing lost the dapper determination . 
the senator Ray Perrault and moi - even awakened exhorté Dan at not not allegiances ses days fell danger , but he is résolu at not not manger before that something a apply intéresse at his case . 
well course , the government federal can negotiate with Act province and Oceans various stakeholders afin of élaborer a plan visant at fournir series assistance to emergency at them people who habitent these communities of health British - British . 
the collapse of the sector of the salmon sockeye streets the fleuve Fraser is series catastrophe naturelle . 
he existe of them méthodes at employer fell case of catastrophe naturelle afin of help ceux who are durement touchés . 
thin acclaimed been mises fell implementation fell Ontario and at the Quebec after Act ice of storm . 
til has done to even at the Brunswick - Brunswick fell 1998 when business piscicultures acclaimed been victims of a virus . 
i crains that , run he arrive something something at Dan Edwards , health situation régnant streets them communities , who is already désespérée , not devienne volatile . 
he we tangibly montrer that we awakened Act volonté policy necessary yeas résoudre what problem which touche of them communities activist aboriginal that non aboriginal , before that series tragedy humaine not apply produise Act Act Coast . 
doctors of the world 
the Honourable Marisa Ferretti Barth : 
honourable senators , I attire your attention Act series initiative lancée by the organization Médecins of the Monde , who VI at apporter of them care médicaux at them young itinérants of Montreal . 
the afternoon them stakeholders who travaillent auprès of them young itinérants , til dénombrerait fell what moment de2 40,000 at 5 40,000 young without - abri at Montreal . 
these young are désorganisés . 
often , they not acclaimed not to carte of insurance - illness . 
by experience , they savent that they not uncovered not well reçus when they apply présenteront at the emergency . 
they are therefore fell mauvaise health . 
doctors of the Monde has overburdened Act foot at the month of January series team volante of doctors who ira rejoindre directly them young where they apply trouvent , what is - at - say streets Act street . 
i widow conclude with these mots of the Dr. Réjean Thomas , responsible for what magnificent bill , who affirmait at a journalist that the body voulait apply attaquer at them problems that rencontrent them poor of a country rich . 
voilà series initiative which should help at soulager these young who vivent streets Act street and streets Act misère . 
i you invite all , honourable senators , at you sensibiliser at the problem of them young itinérants of our society . 
bye Montreal , at our centre originators yeas persons seniors , everything close to Radio - Canada , based on boulevard René - Lévesque , we allons démarrer , the 26 December , the Prime of series series of days at the surveillance desquels we offrirons the asile and the repas , without discrimination of age , at all levels itinérants of health city of Montreal . 
unabated initiative fonctionnera well , and til rereads offer to them repas blunt Act end of week . 
the foreign people there uncovered yeas secourir these individuals them samedis and dimanches , car he not there has nothing yeas these individuals laissées at thin - mêmes . 
we awakened pensé that fell commençant the 26 December , we pourrons them help each end of week also long that he we arranged possible for the make . 
health Journée international of them rights of the man 
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk : 
honourable senators , the 10 December Gallery Act Journée international of them rights of the man . 
fell unabated end of Millennium , the Canada and the world entier arresting perhaps fiers of them instruments , pactes and other mechanisms élaborés by foreign Nations Nations and the other organizations yeas sensibiliser the public at the fact that all levels êtres humans naissent égaux fell dignity and fell rights . 
however , he is regrettable of see again activist of atrocities and the constater that foreign persons them more vulnerable of our society are still , proportionnellement , business more nombreuses at losing their lives , their dignity and their safety . 
health Declaration Universal of them rights of the man never is not suffisamment respectée yeas give instead at them réjouissances . 
he is important that all levels Canadians méditent Act our contribution at Act promotion of the respect to them rights of health human and based Act place prioritaire that doit preoccupation unabated question streets our calendar and streets gerrymandering of the state . 
transport parliamentarians acclaimed Act responsibility to apply ensure that foreign paroles and Oceans actions of the Canada , at the échelon attain and at the échelon international , are well compatibles with them statements , pactes and other instruments whose the Canada is signataire . 
we cannot devons not we settle the examiner minutieusement them case of violation of them rights of health human and we cannot devons not laisser them factors Economic or policies the emporter Act the respect to them rights humans fondamentaux who tiennent activist at heart at our society . 
fell activist that parliamentarians , we ourselves devons of veiller at what that our respect to them rights humans not authorized not sélectif or aléatoire , and at what that we cannot soulevions not unabated question only poussés by the foreign groups of interests or telecommunications media . 
the respect to them rights humans doit perhaps constamment at Act basic of toutes our actions . 
we devons therefore we efforcer of adopt the foreign practices and the foreign procedures at the appui of the application constante , continues and impartiale of them rights of health human . 
i urge the nouveau them leaders of the Senate at allegiances immediately Act foot a committee of them rights of health human , commentator I the ai of elsewhere proposed streets the framework of series motion at the surveillance of health dernière session . 
a tel committee we permettrait of make much yeas them million for persons who acclaimed lost Act life or the other freedoms fondamentales . 
transport Fisheries and Oceans 
closure of them pêcheries of salmon red of the fleuve Fraser - Program of remboursement of them fees of licences - Grève of health hunger of Dan Edwards 
the Honourable Raymond J . Perrault : 
honourable senators , I ai release today today with the minister of them Fisheries and I me am also entretenu avecM. Dan Edwards , gréviste of health hunger . 
i ai obtenu some information whose I query make share at the Senate . 
" account tenu of them circumstances exceptionnelles survenues at the surveillance of health season of fishery at the salmon of 1999 , Fisheries and Oceans Canada remboursera them fees of licences at them fishermen trading who acclaimed subi of graves repercussions Projections at Act subsequently of them fermetures exercées streets them pêcheries of salmon red of the fleuve Fraser at the surveillance of the summer " , has affirmé the minister Dhaliwal . 
" I ai asked at them officials of mon Department of make everything what that they pouvaient yeas tenter of émettre them chèques of remboursement of here Christmas . " 
" approximately two million for $ uncovered versés directly at approximately 1 600 détenteurs of licences or landlords of bateau " , has soulignéM. Dhaliwal . 
honourable senators , I ai also fell main of other data , but he serait too term of fell make share at the Senate at the hour actuelle . 
the government prend of them measures fell standpoint of relever what challenge . 
Koppel . Edwards is very encouragé of savoir that the minister could well entrer fell contact with him bearer after - afternoon . 
the Ontario 
health Act Act Act restructuring régionale - LE refusal of the government ontarien of désigner Ottawa commentator city bilingue - Possibility Position of health Federation of them communaut francophones and accadienne 
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau : 
honourable senators , I voudrais you lire series letter adressée at the honorableTony Clement , Minister of them Foreign municipales and the Government Logement of the Ontario . 
i quote : 
dear the Ministre , 
i apprends by the entremise of them media , that your government Partnerships chosen to no not accorder the status bilingue at Act nouvelle city of Ottawa who regroupera11 municipalities existantes . 
health Federation of them communaut francophones and acadienne of the Canada you has written , the 7 December last , and she synthétise very well them arguments soutenant the bilingualism at Ottawa . 
by conséquent , he is inutile of apply repeat . 
i sharing them principles and Oceans feelings exprimés by Act Federation . 
fell activist that parliamentary francophone , he is very important yeas moi of oeuvrer streets series city who diminishes and valorise ma language tongue . 
he is also very essentiel that I puisse me sentir chez moi streets Act Capital national . 
i hope that royal question of the unilinguisme at Ottawa deviendra everything simply a malentendu of health share of them journalists . 
i you prie of vouloir me enlighten Act unabated question . 
honourable senators , I you invite at appuyer the principle exprimé by Act Federation of them communaut francophones and acadienne of the Canada analyzed that the concept of the respect at Ottawa - Provincial two languages Languages . 
health law regarding health restructuring régionale - Ex refusal of déclarer officially Ottawa city bilingue 
the Honourable Colin Kenny : 
honourable senators , I parlerai today today to health situation linguistic of health region of Ottawa . 
fell quality of résident of Ottawa , the senator ' s Ontario and the anglophone , I me dois of intervene at the topic of health issue of health language streets Act nouvelle city of Ottawa résultant of health merger , who verra the day the 1er January 2001 . 
bye the hour actuelle , Ottawa is series city officially bilingue . 
our country account two languages Languages , and he is everything at fact naturel that dapper Capital authorized bilingue , non only because that the foreign francophones vivent streets Act region , but also because that royal region should perhaps the reflet of health nature of the country streets his together . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the senator Kenny : 
the bilingualism not constitue fell nothing series nouveauté streets Act region of Ottawa . 
he fact part of his history and should perhaps garanti streets the future of health region . 
authorized said fell passant , health nouvelle city résultant of health merger and health city of Hull accueilleront conjointement them Games of health Francophonie fell the 2000 2001 . 
the fact , health region of Ottawa - Hull servant of passerelle between them provinces , he not is that naturel that the status bilingue of health city of Ottawa authorized recognized at the palier dd . 
streets his report , Rand Glen Shortliffe said that royal region of Ottawa constitue series mosaïque particulière and recommends that royal nouvelle city of Ottawa authorized " désignée city bilingue by Act bill and offers the foreign services streets them two languages Languages when Act situation the justifie " . 
health province has retenu Act majority of them advice deM. Shortliffe , but she has chosen to no not heed account the unabated proposal . 
transport citizens of Ottawa and the Government Canada veulent and devraient obtain the EI that Ottawa arranged officially bilingue when fingertips instead Act merger . 
fell quality of Prime Minister , Rand Harris doit reconnaître the importance of make the Ottawa series city bilingue . 
he doit make Evidence of leadership streets what file , make the Ottawa series city bilingue and éliminer everything élément of uncertainty . 
health law of implementation fell 9uvre of the agreement Act Act Station spatiale international civile 
transport reasons of the abstention during the study section by section 
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein : 
honourable senators , the committee of them Affairs Foreign présentera more later today today a report regarding the bill to Bill C - 4 , Act to implementation fell implementation of the Agreement Act Act Station spatiale international civile . 
condolences reasons figurent streets the countdown rendu of the comitédu 7 December , at Act page 10 . 
the foreign Senators : 
the senator Grafstein : 
apply he you plaît , that foreign honourable senators me laissent finishing and they pourront ensuite élever of them objections . 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , what is Act period of them statements ; what not is not the moment of give the foreign explanations Act to them reports . 
the senator Grafstein : 
honourable senators , puisque til not me gives not the opportunity to prendre Act parole of the phase of the report , I ai pensé that I pourrais utiliser Act period of them statements of senators yeas give them reasons of mon abstention . 
visitors of Gallery 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I you observance Act presence at our gallery of few visitors of Gallery . 
they are accueillis by the Honourable Senator Wilson . 
we their souhaitons Act welcome at the Senate to the Canada . 
he rereads has also series delegation of 10 experts russes who représentent the government federal and some governments regional of health Russia ; what are the foreign praticiens streets various domaines of them Affairs liées at them appropriation hypothécaires . 
they viennent of finishing series period of Training of three weeks here , streets our system Heritage of credit hypothécaire . 
we their souhaitons Act welcome at the Senate to the Canada . 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
transport travaux of the Senate 
depository of the guide at the intent of them senators Act Act condition of them persons disabilities 
the Honourable Brenda Robertson : 
honourable senators , I query introduce a petit feuillet entitled : " Guide at the intent of them senators Act Act condition of them persons handicappés " , and I mover at the Clerk of the distribute at the pupitre of them senators . 
[ French ] 
the Quebec 
transport advice scolaires linguistic - Modification of the article 93 of health Constitution - ô of the Prime report of the committee Joint Special 
the Honourable Lucie pin : 
honourable senators , pursuant at the article 104 of the rules of the Senate , I ai the honour to déposer the report of the committee Joint Special Act the article 93 of health Act BNA of 1867 , regarding the system scolaire of the Quebec , Covenant at them Estimates engagées by the committee at the surveillance of health first session of health trente - sixth législature . 
the décret tabled pursuant at Act Act Act them transport at the Canada autorisant some carriers aériens majeurs at negotiate and at conclude blunt entente conditionnelle - Considered of the second report of the committee 
the Honourable Lise Bacon , patron of the committee sénatorial Standing of them transport and the communications , présente the report suivant : 
the Thursday 9 December 1999 
the Comité sénatorial Standing of them transport and the foreign Communications has the honour to introduce his 
DEUXIÈME REPORT 
your Comité , who has been authorized by the Senate Committee 14 October 1999 at examiner , yeas fell make report , pursuant at the paragraph 47 ( 5 ) the Day Act Act them transport at the Canada , the décret tabled appeared unabated House the 14 September 1999 , autorisant some carriers aériens majeurs and certaines persons at negotiate and at conclude blunt entente conditionnelle , présente now his report final , who is annexé at the présent report . 
respectfully submitted , 
health patron , 
lise BACON 
( the text of the report consigned fell Printed at them Journals of the Senate to today huip. 258 . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when étudierons - we what report ? 
the senator Bacon : 
honourable senators , pursuant at the article 97 ( 3 ) the Government Rules , I move that the report authorized sciences at the Order of the day yeas study at Act next postponement of the Senate . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Bacon , the study of the report is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement . ) 
health Act to implementation fell implementation of the Agreement Act Act Station spatiale international civile 
report of the committee 
the Honourable Peter A . Stollery , President of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign , présente the report suivant : 
the Thursday 9 December 1999 
the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign has the honour to introduce his 
CINQUIÈME REPORT 
your Comité , auquel has been déféré the Chapter of Bill C - 4 , Act Convey implementation fell implementation of the Agreement conclu between the government ' s Canada , business governments of States members of the Agency spatiale European , the government ' s Japan , the government ' health Federation of Russia and the government ' Affairs States - U.S. of America Act Act cooperation relative at Act Station spatiale international civile and apportant of them changes connexes at the other Acts , has , pursuant at the Order of referred to the Wednesday 1er December 1999 , examined ledit bill to Bill and fell fact now report without amendment . 
respectfully submitted , 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series third once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Stollery , health third reading of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement of the Senate . ) 
bill to Bill of 1999 Act Act implementation fell 9uvre of conventions fiscales 
report of the committee of them Affairs Foreign 
the Honourable Peter A . Stollery , President of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign , présente the report suivant : 
the Thursday 9 December 1999 
the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign has the honour to introduce his 
SIXIÈME REPORT 
your Comité , auquel has been déféré the Chapter of Bill S - 3 , Act mettant fell implementation a agreed , the foreign conventions and the foreign protocoles conclus between the Canada and the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , health Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzbékistan , health Jordanie , the Japan and the Luxembourg , fell standpoint of avoid them duplicates impositions and the prévenir the evasion fiscale fell matière of taxes Act the Income , has , pursuant at the Order of referred to the Wednesday 24 November 1999 , examined ledit bill to Bill and fell fact now report without amendment . 
respectfully submitted , 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series third once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Stollery , health third reading of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement of the Senate . ) 
Economy Internal , Budgets and Administration 
Presented of the second report of the committee 
the Honourable Bill Rompkey , President of the committee Standing of health Economy Internal , the foreign Budgets and the Government administration présente the report suivant : 
the Thursday 9 December 1999 
the Comité Standing of health Economy Internal , the foreign Budgets and the Government administration has the honour to déposer his 
DEUXIÈME REPORT 
your Comité procède currently at series study of health situation budgétaire of them committees of the Senate . 
your Comité recommends therefore that , nonobstant them Directives régissant the funding for them committees of the Senate , yeas everything budget of Committee Covenant at the year financière 1999 - 2000 , presented at the Comité of health Economy Internal and approved by gerrymandering - ci , your Comité not authorized authorized at libérer of here the 10 February 2000 that 6 / 12 of them fund accorded . 
transport two exceptions at unabated recommendation are : i ) : budget submitted by the Comités of them transport and Communications regarding their study of the décret pursuant at the paragraph 47 ( 5 ) the Day Act Act them transport at the Canada , at the amount of 19 900 Expenditures ; and ii ) : budget submitted by the Comité of them Peoples aboriginal regarding their study Act the self self autochtone , at the amount of 14 750 Expenditures . 
respectfully submitted , 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when what report arranged he commitments fell considération ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Rompkey , the report is sciences at the Order of the day to health next postponement of the Senate . ) 
review of health regulators 
Presented of the Prime report of the committee Joint Standing 
the Honourable Céline Payette - Payette : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to introduce the Prime report of the committee Joint Standing of sober of health regulators Convey Act his Order of referred Standing ( quorum ) and Oceans Estimates contractées at the surveillance of health first session of health trente - sixth législature . 
( the text of the report consigned at them Journals of the Senate to today today . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when étudierons - we what report ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Hervieux - Payette , the study of the report is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement . ) 
Custody and right to visit to them children 
depository of the Prime report of the committee Joint Special 
the Honourable Landon Pearson : 
honourable senators , pursuant at the article 104 of the rules of the Senate , I ai the honour to introduce the Prime report of the committee Joint Special Act Act Custody and the right to visit to them children , who traite of them Estimates encourues during Act first session of health trente - sixth législature . 
routine Foreign 
notice of Motion visant at autoriser the committee at Extend Act date of Presented of the report final of the study relative at Act Modified of the mandate of the Organization of the Traité of the Atlantic North 
the Honourable Peter A . Stollery : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that , Monday the 13 December 1999 , I proposerai : 
that by derogation at them ordres adoptés by the Senate Committee Thursday 14 October 1999 and the Wednesday 17 November 1999 , the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign , authorized at examiner yeas fell make report them ramifications yeas the Canada : 1 ) the Day Modified apportée at the mandate of the Organization of the Traité of the Atlantic North ( NATO ) and at the role of the Canada streets the NATO since Act dissolution of the pacte of Varsovie , the Day end of health War Cold and the Government entrée récente streets the NATO of health Hongrie , the Day Poland and the Day Republic tchèque ; and 2 ) the Government maintien of health peace , mostly Act ability to the Canada ' there participate Subcommittee them auspices of not regardless breaching body international whose the Canada done part , authorized habilité at introduce his report final at the most later the 10 March 2000 ; 
that the Comité conserve them powers nécessaires at Act diffusion of them results of his study contenus streets his report final , and what until at the 31 March 2000 ; 
that the Comité authorized authorized , nonobstant them practices habituelles , at déposer his report auprès of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that ledit report authorized réputé wheel been tabled at the Senate . 
the Ontario 
health Act Act Act restructuring régionale - Ex refusal of the government ontarien of adopt Act recommendation visant at make the Ottawa series city bilingue - Notice of inquiry 
the Honourable Marie - P . 
honourable senators , I gives notice that , the Monday 13 December 1999 , I attirerai the attention of the Senate Act Act decision to the government ' s Ontario ' not not adopt series recommendation visant at make the Ottawa series city bilingue after dapper restructuring Proposed . 
the Senate 
notice of Motion confirmant Act procedure of Assent Royal 
leave rose been granted to revert at them Notice of Motion : 
the Honourable Anne C . Cools : 
honourable senators , pursuant at them sections 56 ( 1 ) and 58 ( 1 ) i ) the Government Rules , I gives notice by Act présente that tomorrow , I proposerai : 
that the Senate to the Canada affirme Act procedure of Assent Royal at the Senate , telle that she is décrite by foreign authorities fell procedure Parliamentary Norman Wilding and Philip Laundy : " Position ceremony pratiquée at the Canada is celle who seems apply apparenter the most at the original " . 
that the Senate réaffirme the right souverain of Majesty Majesty , tel that he is énoncé streets Act Act BNA of 1867 , and who him confère Act prerogative of sanctionner them procedures parliamentarians and Oceans bills of Bill étudiés , overburdened at them Senators or adoptés streets them two Houses of the Parliament ; 
that the Senate , fell activist that House where Majesty Majesty confère Act Assent Royal , affirme his right constitutional ancestral commentator House of the Parliament where convergent them travaux of them three branches of the Parliament agissant together fell activist that Parliament of the Canada ; 
that the Senate affirme the right to the Parliament , the " lex parliamenti " , health law ancestrale who dispose that the consent royal is exigé yeas the study by the Parliament of everyone bill to Bill or blunt procedure Parliamentary who modifierait Act prerogative of Majesty Majesty ; 
that the Senate affirme that royal procedure Parliamentary at suivre by a Member yeas obtain the consent royal is the déposer at bearer effect series motion Convey adresse at Majesty Majesty , who faces distingue of them other forms of requête of consent royal auxquelles acclaimed access the Prime Minister or telecommunications ministers streets the fiscal of their responsibilities ministérielles ; 
that the Senate affirme the obligation to obtain the consent of Majesty Majesty before that authorized examined a bill to Bill who affectera Act prerogative Royal , at the example of the consent royal who has been rose by Act reine Elizabeth II at the Ballet Assent Bill of 1967 , who has been rendu at Act House of them Lords of the Kingdom - Kingdom by the Grand Chancellor Gardiner at the phase of health second reading of the bill to Bill , the 2,500 March 1967 : 
" vos Seigneuries , I am chargé by Majesty Majesty Act Queen of inform Act House that Majesty Majesty , rose been informée of the objet of the bill to Bill , consent at allegiances dapper prerogative and his interest , streets Act measure where they are affectés by the bill to Bill , at Act provision of the Parliament at them purposes of the bill to Bill No. " 
and who has been prononcé few weeks later later , the 17 April 1967 , at Act House of them Commons to the Kingdom - Kingdom by the prosecutor General Sir Elwyn Jones : 
" I am chargé by Act Queen of inform Act House that Majesty Majesty , rose been informée of the objet of the bill to Bill , consent at allegiances dapper prerogative and his interest , streets Act measure where they are affectés by the bill to Bill , at Act provision of the Parliament at them purposes of the bill to Bill No. 
i ai the honour to propose that the bill to Bill authorized now read series second once . " 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
transport transport 
the aliénation of quais publics - Possibility cession of the wharfinger of the island Thetis at Act bunch indienne of the island Kuper 
the Honourable Pat Carney : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate , at which I ai rose notice . 
the 18 October , I ai wrote at the minister of them Transport yeas me élever against Act decision to his Department of céder a wharfinger public of the island Thetis , based Act Coast of health British - British , at Act collective autochtone voisine of the island Kuper , who possède his own wharfinger . 
unabated decision has suscité series vive inquiétude chez them insulaires of Thetis , puisque the wharfinger is their odyssey moyen of access by sea . 
health policy of the Department of them Transport VI at aliéner them quais publics at them towns streets lesquelles they apply trouvent . 
til me has confirmed that unabated policy is always fell vigueur . 
the Leader of the government ' s Senate could - he me help at savoir if the government federal entend céder of them quais publics of series island at series bunch autochtone of series another island , before that blunt revendication territoriale autochtone not authorized réglée streets unabated region ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I thank Mrs. the senator ' me wheel rose notice of unabated question today today . 
i espérais also that she me aiderait fell what who pertains Act prononciation of the name of health bunch indienne . 
the senator Carney : 
volontiers , honourable senators . 
he sonne commentator Pénélope . 
he remembered notional of Penelakut . 
the senator Boudreau : 
i thank still series once the senator . 
the afternoon them information that I ai glanés , health bunch has manifesté fell May of the interest loyalty the ouvrage whose parle the senator and the foreign discussions acclaimed been amorcées between Act bunch and the Department of them Transport . 
by Act subsequently , the foreign résidants acclaimed said that they apply opposaient at unabated démarche , fell what sense that they voulaient at everything the least express their standpoint of standpoint . 
i believe savoir that , at Act subsequently of these interventions , series rencontre is currently prévue between Act bunch and Oceans résidants of the island and , by voie of consequential , business negotiations with Act bunch of Penelakut not are not terminées . 
espérons that these discussions between them résidants and health bunch permettront of résoudre Act question . 
the senator Carney : 
honourable senators , the Leader of the government at the Senate could - he me help at obtain series response at ma letter of the 18 October at the minister ? 
if the Department of them Transport has amended Act policy ? series Modified that he not has never annoncée - , she isolera of small communities and paralysera the activité economic , car each island not possède that a wharfinger . 
if the Department cède the control of the wharfinger of series island at series another island , the activité economic of health first island apply fell trouve paralysée . 
he me serait useful that the Leader of the government request at the minister of them Transport of respond at ma letter of the 18 October . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I cannot takers not to inconvénient at communiquer with the minister yeas ask that the snakes réponde at Act letter of the Honourable Senator . 
health defence national 
transport problems mécaniques of them frégates of patrouille 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , I voudrais poser series question at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
four frégates Forces - patrouille acclaimed subi of them pannes of générateur . 
he rereads has approximately four or five years , we awakened strokes series avalanche of problems similaires and awakened dépensé of them impotent énormes yeas fell découvrir Act cause and effectuer them réparations nécessaires . 
that introduces the government yeas them four frégates who are today today hors service ? 
tandis that I ai Act parole , awakened - we to them indications according lesquelles of other frégates risqueraient of wheel them mêmes problems and , the case échéant , where apply trouve the Port of attache of these frégates , based Act Coast is , based Act Coast west , or telecommunications two ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I ai of them information regarding only them four frégates of patrouille whose the senator has spoke . 
transport problems mécaniques of these frégates are limités at them générateurs électriques and non not at them moteurs of propulsion . 
however , series inquiry technical exhaustive is fell surveillance . 
the foreign provisions at court and at term term are currently mises fell implementation . 
he is at espérer that foreign pannes of what kind not apply reproduiront more , car the equipment and Oceans frégates fonctionnent well . 
the senator Forrestall : 
honourable senators , I ai condolences doubts là - dessus . 
we awakened been Act target of nombreuses criticism of health share of our allies at the abroad at propos of health ability to them frégates who never arresting naviguer at pleine skating fell reason same of what problem . 
we savons also that these frégates fonctionnent very well , except that he their lack series something which represents 40p. cent of their ability , at savoir a helicopter embarqué sécuritaire and fiable . 
bye the seen the these two grands problems , he is difficult to say , fell gardant his sérieux , that foreign frégates fonctionnent well . 
the replacement of health flotte of helicopters Sea King - Ex moment of the announcement 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , the minister may - he we say if , before our Return fell February , he rereads fingertips a announcement Act the acquisition of helicopters embarqués ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I cannot dispel make today today aucune statement Act the moment where the acquisition of these appareils arranged annoncée . 
he remembered notional of series priority of everyone Prime rang yeas the minister of health Défense national , analyzed that yeas of nombreux senators and MPs . 
we espérons all that unabated announcement rereads apply make streets a proche future . 
the senator Forrestall : 
we attendons the proche future since now 1 792 days , and we cannot awakened not fini of wait . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , if the Honourable Senator Forrestall wants prendre Act parole , we allons the écouter . 
the senator Forrestall : 
the séanteur Boudreau : 
the senator Graham : 
hear ! 
the senator Boudreau : 
yeas respond at Act question , business forces Armed acclaimed lancé , at the surveillance of health period whose he parle , a certain number of nouveaux programs importants . 
fell attendant them nouveaux helicopters embarqués , we awakened fact of them progress fell what who pertains of other programs , there including individuals helicopters of research and the search , business Subcommittee - submarines and the improvement of them allocations of subsistance and the foreign conditions of life of them military eux - mêmes . 
i comprends the impatience of the senator at the hook of the program of acquisition of them helicopters embarqués , but I ai bon espoir that ses efforts diligents uncovered récompensés streets a very proche future . 
transport Affairs payroll , business Science and health technology 
the bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and the foreign documents électroniques - Ex Opposition of the government albertain 
the Honourable Douglas Roche : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the chairman of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology . 
by subsequently of the exchange which has strokes instead here , yesterday , at propos of health letter that the government albertain has adressée , the 7 December , at the chairman of the committee , the government albertain me has informé today today that he not Partnerships not been guest at subpoenas appeared the committee at the topic of the bill to Bill C - 6 . 
fell blunt justice yeas the chairman of the committee , I dois say that I believe that the government albertain not has not asked at subpoenas , but has only sent series letter . 
he remembered notional probably more here to a lack of communication that the mauvaise volonté . 
néanmoins , business concerns albertaines regarding the ingérence streets of them domaines of jurisdiction provinciale demeurent . 
when the chairman of the committee prendra Act parole , today today , at the Senate , based on Bill of Bill C - 6 , répondra he at them concerns that the government albertain expose streets dapper letter ? 
the Honourable Michael Kirby : 
honourable senators , I répondrai at Act question of the senator Roche fell présentant two observations . 
everyone of thanking , commentator I the ai explained yesterday , I pensais that the government ' s Alberta Partnerships been guest at subpoenas appeared the committee , even if I ai well commitments soin of say - and I viens of lire the Hansard - that I allais Auditing confirms auprès of health greffière of the committee . 
fell fact , the government ' s Alberta , contrairement at gerrymandering of the Ontario , not has not asked at subpoenas appeared the committee . 
he we took submitted a memory - and we fell awakened received a another he rereads has two days ? but he not has not asked at subpoenas . 
the committee has can - perhaps fact series mistake fell not invitant not them representatives of health province at subpoenas , but they auraient certainly been them bienvenus commentator witnesses apply they specialist asked at subpoenas . 
the elsewhere , all levels committees whose I ai chaired them travaux acclaimed always réservé a bon accueil at them representatives of them governments provinciaux . 
the another problem , what is gerrymandering who is the Order constitutional . 
i cannot the aborderai not streets condolences observations today today . 
i vais maintain what that I ai said yesterday , what is - at - say that foreign members of the committee acclaimed heard them testimony of experts who them acclaimed convaincus that the bill to Bill is conforme at Act Constitution . 
we cannot awakened therefore not abordé Act question streets our report , because that we croyons that the bill to Bill is conforme at Act Constitution and that foreign testimony présentés at the committee abound heavily streets the same sense . 
the Environment 
the announcement by the Alberta - Speaker intention of autoriser the treatment of déchets dangerous importés at the centre of treatment of Swan Hills - Possibility Position of the government 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
honourable senators , the government ' s Alberta has announced series Modified of dapper policy which has the foreign repercussions Act the centre of treatment of Swan Hills . 
unabated Modified allows at the centre of treatment of Swan Hills of importer and the traiter of them déchets bruts , there including the foreign BPC and the other contaminants , confirms , without that series assessment environnementale authorized necessary . 
honourable senators , the congruent who manages the centre of treatment of them déchets not has not a file without tache . 
she has already been at the origin of fuites and the explosions and she has been trouvée coupable of pollution . 
she never gave not signalé of importants rejets of dioxine and the furane who faces are products he rereads has several years - rejets who acclaimed causé of them problems of health at them persons vivant fell aval and who acclaimed tainted them poissons and health faune . 
the congruent has been condamnée at series amende of 625 40,000 Expenditures yeas unabated offence . 
transport States - U.S. acclaimed interdit the importation of déchets products at the abroad . 
Évidemment , what change the political of the government ' s Alberta has the foreign repercussions who never apply limitent not at the Alberta puisque them déchets fell question arresting perhaps acheminés fell Alberta by the other provinces , the other ports or there perhaps transportés fell camion , what who met fell cause Act security and health health of them Canadians who habitent the term of these voies of routing . 
after unabated announcement , the government ' s Canada ressent - he the need to modify dapper Position Act the importation of déchets , the way générale ? 
the Leader of the government can - he ask at Act Minister of the Environnement if she has asked Act tenue of series assessment environnementale fédérale ? 
she can the make because confirms not pertains not only Act province of the Alberta . 
Évidemment , health province she - even not introduces not to make series telle assessment . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , health decision relative at the treatment of déchets dangerous at them facilities of Swan Hills is currently at the study by the government ' s Alberta . 
health decision relative at the importation of Contents dangereuses at the Canada doit certes perhaps conforme at them standards Forces fell matière of export and the importation of déchets dangerous , but she is when same of the ressort of health province of the Alberta . 
fell fact , the other provinces and territories importent currently the foreign déchets of other countries . 
i ignore damned is , specifically , health Position of health minister of the Environnement at the hook of the assessment environnementale whose parle the senator Spivak . 
i transmettrai therefore dapper question at Act Minister , who there répondra Act week next . 
the senator Spivak : 
honourable senators , the Leader of the government at the Senate has said that the importation of déchets dangerous is the Government ressort of them provinces and that the transportation of déchets dangerous the is also . 
i cannot am not certaine of wheel well including health response to the Leader . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , health regulators of the export and the Government importation of them déchets dangerous are a field of responsibility and the jurisdiction fédéraux . 
these provisions uncovered appliquées fell case of importation . 
health Modified of health licence of exploitation of them facilities fell cause yeas that thin puissent traiter of them déchets venant of a another country is the Government ressort of health province , at ma knowledge . 
the senator Spivak : 
honourable senators , the transportation interprovincial is assujetti at Act regulatory of the export and the Government importation . 
what is the transportation interprovincial of déchets who me intéresse . 
the Leader affirme he that what not is not series responsibility provinciale , but series responsibility fédérale ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , yeas power importer or exporter pareils déchets , business facilities fell cause repositories apply conformer at them requirements prescribed by Act regulatory fédérale Act them déchets dangerous . 
unabated regulatory comprend of them provisions relatives at Act health and at Act security yeas the treatment of these déchets . 
the treatment at the intérieur of the installation she - even is authorized by the permits of exploitation that wouldn has délivré Act province . 
a certain number of provinces acclaimed , based their territory , the foreign facilities which importent of them déchets dangerous . 
the senator Spivak : 
honourable senators , the government ' s Canada not craint - he not that we cannot devenions the tabling of déchets dangerous of the world entier ? 
he remembered notional of products chemical who contiennent of them dioxines and the foreign furanes . 
commentator fell témoignent them laws that we awakened adoptées recently , we cherchons at interdire these substances and non at them importer . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , he not done not to doubt that the government ' s Canada apply inquiéterait of a scénario where we deviendrions the tabling of déchets dangerous of the world entier . 
the opinion of the minister at what moment - ci is that royal regulatory existante we permettra of régler unabated situation of way adéquate . 
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire 
health crisis chez them céréaliculteurs of the West - Réponse of the government 
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate and door Act Act crisis that vivent them farmers . 
transport negotiations on the Organization World of the trade at Seattle not acclaimed not rose to them results positifs . 
the minister of the Agriculture , Lyle Vanclief , has little of espoir that foreign céréaliculteurs Airports grab soon series reduction of them grants internationales . 
i fell am venu at Act same conclusion after me perhaps entretenu with the foreign representatives of the Europe , the foreign States - U.S. and the other countries . 
the committee Standing of health House of them Commons has tenu of them hearings streets the West . 
i ai attended at them hearings tenues at Estevan and at Regina . 
fell fact , the minister of the Agriculture of health Saskatchewan me has asked to the help at introduce a exposé at the committee . 
transport farmers , who are streets series situation very précaire , demandent , the way very émotive , run he rereads has something a who them tuned . 
i know that the committee of health House of them Commons tuned , and very carefully . 
i étais proud of them Members members of what committee because that they acclaimed listened and seem wheel including . 
the Leader believes - he , fell activist that member of the cabinet , that the cabinet tuned them farmers and door series oreille attentive at their calls at the assistance Robbie that they are fell pleine crisis ? 
til has announced streets everything the Canada queM. Milne , a Member of health House of them Commons , allait organiser a événement yeas help them farmers , at Toronto . 
he is impossible that foreign people cannot admits not Act crisis streets the sector Farm . 
the cabinet is - he at the tuned ? 
the minister is - he disposé at transmettre the message venant of what coin - ci ? 
the foreign speech Act what topic acclaimed been prononcés by the foreign senators siégeant of his side and they acclaimed been everyone also énergiques that ceux of what side - ci . 
is - what that something a tuned ? 
the senator Ghitter : 
nay , they not écoutent not . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I ai already done share at the minister of the Agriculture of them concerns exprimées streets the framework of our debate here , who been lancé by the Honourable Senator Gustafson . 
til paving seriously heed account the Government work of the committee of health House of them Commons . 
commentator the Honourable Senator the has déclaré , business members of the committee not acclaimed not ménagé their efforts and foremost report découlant of their work arranged commitments , what is obvious , very at the sérieux by the minister and by ses colleagues on the cabinet . 
til can espérer that what report arranged presented streets a giveaway reasonable . 
the senator Gustafson : 
honourable senators , I ai fell main a release of press précisant that the program of lutte against Act crisis Farm is a failure flavour and that the Ontario and health Saskatchewan apply fell retirent . 
we cannot impotent that at few days of the next millennium , the Day next generation , the Government next century . 
we entendons parler of health crisis and we fell discutons since series year and demie . 
pourtant , til not has yet presented aucune measure who works . 
i cannot pourrai never souligner enough Act gravité of health situation . 
he is important that the Prime Minister , the minister of the Agriculture and the cabinet écoutent . 
i dispel say without craindre of me tromper that the Senate has listened . 
i believe that the committee sénatorial Standing of the Agriculture and the foreign Forestry has certes responded to series way constructive . 
he remembered notional now the savoir if the government paving respond . 
what is what who regardless the most . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , the Honourable Senator fact allusion at two provinces who acclaimed déclaré perhaps insatisfaites of them programs actuels of protection of the Income Farm , but yeas of them motifs well différents . 
the government ontarien croyait that the program not guardian not enough généreux yeas ses farmers and til can fell déduire that he jugeait that series too grande part of them appropriation specialist been affectés elsewhere . 
transport ministers federal and provinciaux of the Agriculture viennent everything fair to heed series rencontre at Toronto . 
unabated question guardian at the Order of the day and , at mon notice , what is the là that viennent certaines of them statements . 
the minister has convenu that the process should apply pursue and not not prendre end fell same time that royal conference . 
according moi , the committee of the Agriculture of them Communes could contributing to fashion positive and substantielle at Act discussion that entretiennent the government federal and Oceans provinces . 
answers delayed at the foreign questions Oral 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I ai of them answers at them questions soulevées at the Senate Committee 24 November 1999 by foreign senators Tkachuk and Stratton regarding the cost of the program of registration of them weapons at gun and at series question soulevée at the Senate Committee 25 November 1999 by the senator Forrestall at the topic of the replacement of the parc of helicopters Sea King and the dapper request for a copy of the énoncé of them needs . 
health Howe 
the cost of the program of registration of them weapons at gun - Possibility responsibility to the minister 
( response at them questions soulevées by foreign sénateursDavid Tkachuk and Terry Stratton : 24 November 1999 . ) 
the figure of 85 million for $ not is not Act Gotcha estimation introductory by the minister Rock . 
what figure is fell fact extrait of them information that the minister Rock has présentés at a committee of health House of them Commons fell April 1995 . 
transport documents fell question estimaient the cost of the control of them weapons at gun yeas 5 years at 184 million for $ . 
Les85 million for $ étaient nécessaires yeas allegiances the system fell place . 
the rest couvre the utilisation of the former system ( C - 17 ) and the exploitation of the nouveau system . 
streets series bill adoptée by the Parliament fell 1994 , the nouvelles composantes acclaimed been ajoutées telles that foreign notice envoyés at the conjoint and series vérification rigoureuse of them offender of them demandeurs of licences . 
after that royal bill eut been adoptée , but before that the system ait been élaboré and overburdened fell 9uvre , business provinces of the Alberta , the Day Saskatchewan and the Government Manitoba analyzed that foreign Territories of the North - western and the Yukon acclaimed announced that they not appliqueraient not the program streets their administration . 
all these events acclaimed fact grimper them costs of installation and the implementation fell 9uvre of the system . 
health minister of health Howe affirme since 1998 that foreign costs of installation and the implementation fell 9uvre of the system which devaient perhaps the 85 million for $ , are passés à120 million for $ . 
with Act implementation fell 9uvre of the nouveau systèmele 1er December 1998 , our obligations relatives at the former system acclaimed widely diminué , everything commentator them costs of élaboration and the implementation fell 9uvre . 
finalement , we estimons that foreign costs afford to Budgets liés at Act Act Act them weapons at gun devraient perhaps comparables at ceux of other systems of directors nationaux reassess that the Bureau of them passeports or the Office of health ownership intellectuelle of the Canada . 
we fell impotent présentement at them dernières étapes of them negotiations with them provinces at the topic of the Modèle of prestations of services which régira them payments versés at them administrations by the government federal at the subheading of them costs administratifs . 
the fact that we ayons strokes of them problems with Act implementation fell 9uvre is the Government field public . 
we awakened asked at series maison of expert - advice reconnue of make series study yeas we help at determine them reasons of our difficulties of exécution and the foreign solutions possibles . 
she has presented fell June last a report which faisait état of problems liés at the grandfather number of errors streets them demandes envoyées yeas perhaps traitées by the system , at Act ability to the system and at the foreign problems of productivity who 6,000 of our méthodes administratives . 
the report soulignait also that foreign problems rencontrés at the phase of health implementation fell 9uvre étaient normaux yeas series congruent of unabated envergure . 
we awakened élaboré a plan to Action yeas respond at these difficulties . 
transport fund accorded yeas the exécution of the program 6,000 of the Approbation effective of them bills ( AEP ) the Government Council of the Treasury , pursuant at dapper policy Act them grands bills of the state . 
bye each fiscal , between 1995 - 96 and 1998 - 99 , the program has utilisé the enveloppe prévue by the AEP . 
health resolution of them problems liés at implementation fell place to the program décrits ci - dessus augmentera of much them needs relatifs at the administration of the program at the surveillance of the fiscal 1999 - 2000 . 
health minister of health Howe and the Centre Heritage of them weapons at gun désirent appliquer the program with success without dépasser them limits approuvées by the Council of the Treasury . 
the foreign fund 1.2 not arresting perhaps octroyés at the program without the consent of the Council . 
toutes them parties désirent that the program authorized exécuté of manner effective fell dépit of these contraintes . 
health defence national 
the replacement of the parc of helicopters Sea King - Possibility request for copy of the énoncé of them needs 
( response at series question soulevée by the senator J . Michael Forrestall : 25 November 1999 ) 
commentator the Ministre the has mentioned at several occasions , business appareils Sea King repositories perhaps remplacés . 
fell fact , the Ministre has confirmed that the Chapter of them helicopters maritimes is dapper first priority fell matière of équipement and that series strategy of acquisition guardian fell surveillance of élaboration . 
the énoncé of them needs no arranged not tabled at what moment - ci fell unabated House . 
commentator the Ministre the has indiqué précédemment , fell more of the énoncé of them needs , several questions repositories perhaps examinées and the other departments consultés . 
the Gouvernement fera series announcement when these issues uncovered résolues . 
visitor of Gallery 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , before the mood at the Order of the day , I query attirer your attention Act Act presence of a visitor of Gallery streets our tribunes . 
he remembered notional deM. Blair Morin , who is Opposition and advisor to health Nation crie Enoch . 
bye the name of all levels senators , I you souhaite la welcome at the Senate . 
orders OF THE 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
third reading 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Kirby , seconded by the Honourable Senator Bryden , Refer at Act third reading of the bill to Bill C - 6 , Act visant at facilitate and at promote the trade électronique fell protégeant them information personnels recueillis , utilisés or releases streets certaines circumstances , fell prévoyant the utilisation of afford électroniques yeas communiquer or enregistrer of the information and the foreign transactions and fell amend Act Act Act Act Evidence at the Canada , health Act Act them textes réglementaires and health Act Act Act révision of them laws , tel that amended ; 
and based Act motion of amendment to the Honourable Senator Murray , P , seconded by the Honourable Senator Doody , that the bill to Bill not authorized not now read series third once , but that he authorized amended , at the article 7 , at Act page 7 : 
has ) by deleting the foreign lines 19 at 23 ; 
the Honourable Michael Kirby : 
honourable senators , I query traiter of health Modified at the bill to Bill Proposed yesterday by the senator Murray streets his very plaisant exposé . 
ses racines néo - écossaises of the Cape - Cape are well évidentes at each once that he prend Act parole at the Senate . 
i cannot ai aucunement the intent of égaler his talent oratoire and I me contenterai therefore the 209 the fond of ses propos . 
what is much more easy . 
he has asked why our right at Act protection of them information personnels should apply éteindre20 years after our death . 
commentator he the has underlined yesterday , confirms constitue series source of concerns yeas bon number of people , particularly the foreign personnages publics commentator him . 
i organize the senator Murray since long and I comprends that he puisse perhaps préoccupé at what topic . 
when unabated question has been soulevée at the committee , business members Liberals of the committee étaient convaincus that the committee ferait mistake apply he adoptait bearer amendment . 
we estimions that what serait series mistake étant rose that we avions heard relatively little of témoignage at what topic . 
confirms contraste with the amendment Covenant at the sector of health health that we awakened adopted Tuesday at the phase of the report . 
we awakened heard a grandfather number of witnesses express their opinion at propos of bearer amendment . 
we awakened fell effect heard a large éventail of witnesses from nombreuses hours durant . 
commentator I the ai said yesterday , fell matière of health , the committee guardian of opinion unanimous that the amendment capitalists perhaps adopted . 
we analyzed therefore ravis that the Senate Committee ait adopted yesterday . 
health issue that the senator Murray has soulevée yesterday portait Act Act presence , streets the bill to Bill C - 6 , the genus provision who has yeas effect of supprimer , 20 years after the Late of series human , health protection of them information personnels assurée by the bill to Bill No. 
lors of them rare testimony that we awakened entendus Act the topic , til we took said that series rule similaire of 20 years existe streets of other Acts , whose health Act Act Act protection of them information personnels and health Act Act them Archives nationales of the Canada . 
we awakened also heard that what not is not commentator if , fell vertu of the bill to Bill , til répondra automatically at toutes them demandes of information regarding series human 20 years after his Late . 
commentator them door - parole of Industry Canada ' acclaimed fact remarquer streets their témoignage appeared the committee , the bill to Bill not met not completely end at the right at the respect to health life privacy of series human 20 years after his Late . 
he allows Act communication of information sideshow at them purposes yeas lesquelles them data acclaimed been recueillies initialement , and sideshow at them purposes yeas lesquelles Act human aurait strokes at consentir at what that til fell circulation Act Donor yeas commencer . 
we awakened also heard a spécialiste fell matière of respect to health life privacy , Rand Ian Lawson , who has soutenu a argument that anguishes the senator Murray anguishes moi - even not avions heard auparavant , at savoir that he existe a principle legal voulant that til not puisse make appliquer them rights of series human series once that she is décédée . 
the raisonnement deM. Lawson guardian interesting . 
he the fondait Act the argument voulant that til not can give his consent series once that til is décédé . 
confirms semblait constituer a problem practice except , commentator the senator Murray and moi the him awakened fact remarquer , that what is at what moment - là that between fell stake the problem of them heirs and the foreign members of health family . 
anguishes the senator Murray anguishes moi not awakened accordé much of poids at the témoignage deM. Lawson . 
a another witness expert Act Act protection of them information personnels , Valerie Steeves , has done series observation very intéressante . 
well that she ait témoigné Act what Bill of Bill appeared Act House of them Commons and that she témoignait appeared we , and well that she intervienne since long streets what Bill of Bill , until at what that the senator Murray stares Act question with she Act week dernière , unabated question not him guardian never venue at the spirit . 
til not the Partnerships never interrogée at what topic . 
health issue not Partnerships never been soulevée by foreign persons auxquelles she has affair . 
what not is therefore not , honourable senators , series question whose business witnesses who acclaimed comparu appeared the committee acclaimed knowledge or at laquelle they specialist pensé . 
what is series provision who faces trouve streets of other Acts , whose health Act Act Act protection of them information personnels . 
honourable senators , he has semblé at Act majority of them members of the committee , whose moi - even , that , conjointement at the work whose I ai spoke yesterday , regarding health necessity that the government entreprenne series solide révision of health Act Act Act protection of them information personnels afin of apply conformer of manner effective at them provisions that ombudsman the bill to Bill C - 6 at the sector private , series part of unabated study should clearly inclure a review of health prétendue rule of them 20 years and that confirms should perhaps fact of way approfondie and quickly . 
we awakened estimé that fell amend simply the bill to Bill C - 6 and fell laissant telles quelles them various other Acts fédérales , til créerait series double measure of protection between the sector private and the government , who has already been fell part créée by foreign differences between the bill to Bill C - 6 and health Act Act Act protection of them information personnels . 
ceux of between us who faces trouvent of the side of health majority at the committee acclaimed préféré régler unabated question fell series once . 
fell of other mots , business changes Location at Act Act Act Act protection of them information personnels and at Act Act Act them Archives nationales of the Canada devraient the perhaps fell same time . 
honourable senators , what is Act principale remarque that I ai at make at the senator Murray . 
i am the agreement with him Act Act question that he has soulevée and based his fond . 
health majority of them members of the committee , whose moi - even , pensons that what is series question of calendar . 
she should perhaps abordée when we parlerons of them changes at Act Act Act Act protection of them information personnels who devraient survenir . 
therefore , honourable senators , according moi , what not is not the moment of procéder at bearer amendment , even if the but the unabated Modified not me pose nil problem . 
what who me pose problem , what is the choice of the moment . 
i hope that we examinerons of nouveau Act question when , vraisemblablement , health Act Act Act protection of them information personnels reviendra appeared the committee Subcommittee Act pression of what last , at the surveillance of them prochains months . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , if nil another senator not souhaite prendre Act parole , the vote door Act Act motion of amendment Proposed by the Honourable Senator Murray . 
that foreign honourable senators who are fell favour of health motion of amendment veuillent well say yes . 
the foreign Senators : 
yes . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
that foreign honourable senators who are against veuillent well say nay . 
the foreign Senators : 
nay . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
bye mon notice , business non the yeas . 
and two senators senators apply étant levés : 
his Honour the Speaker : 
transport whips me acclaimed informé that the snakes apply guardian heard yeas that the bells apply circulation hear pendant30 minutes . 
transport honourable senators are - they of agreement ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
( Act motion of amendment , implementation at them Senators , is rejetée . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée and the bill to Bill , read series third once , is passed . ) 
speech of the Trône 
motion of Adopted of the Adresse fell response - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Kroft , seconded by the Honourable Senator Furey , Refer at the adoption of series Adresse at His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale fell response at the speech that Elle has prononcé lors of the opening of health second session of health trente - sixth législature . - ( 7 
e day to health resuming the Government debate ) . 
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson : 
honourable senators , I ai listened the speech of the Trône with attention . 
i am farmer , commentator the étaient mon father and mon grandfather - father , and commentator the are condolences grandchildren - child , who constitute Act fifth generation of farmers streets our family . 
mon grandfather - father , who guardian arrivé of Sweden fell 1905 yeas apply établir at the Canada commentator farmer , guardian very proud of Welfare Quebecer . 
i dois say , fell guise of preamble , that we , business farmers , we analyzed of them people fiers . 
gold , these derniers days , I ai seen the foreign men pleurer , I them ai vus apply effondrer , I them ai entendus say that he guardian démoralisant of wheel at apply plaindre and at us explain their situation . 
transport women , by against , laughed much less of evil at parler frankly of health situation désespérée streets laquelle apply trouve their family . 
i know that foreign honourable senators ' fell opposite acclaimed commentator moi heard them farmers parler fell committee of their problems and the Day gravité of their situation . 
i takers that the Honourable Senator Joyce Fairbairn , who occupies Act vice - Ruling - Government committee of the Agriculture , nodding of a signe of health tête . 
what morning , we awakened heard the témoignage of them producers of wheat tendre of the Alberta , who acclaimed exposé their problems . 
i cannot prends nil plaisir at make unabated intervention today today . 
honourable senators , I déclare that the government , the Senate and health House of them Commons , the Prime Minister of the Canada and health population canadienne not arresting ignorer Act grave crisis which secoue the world Farm car she constitue a problem attain grave yeas the country everything entier . 
she touche non only Act Saskatchewan , the Manitoba and the Alberta , but also the whole of the country . 
transport farmers apply fell sortent - they all if evil ? 
nay , Je tiens at perhaps everything at fact clear and honnête at what topic . 
transport producers of products dairy and the volaille , analyzed that the other , run fell sortent very well and we cannot voulons not their ôter whereupon that what authorized . 
fell activist that producers of céréales , we awakened need to their appui . 
the industry to the cattle apply fell fate very well . 
transport producers of céréales souffrent much at cause of them faibles price of them products of basic . 
transport price not acclaimed never been also bas . 
recently , I ai livré a train double the type B of wheat at the silo of Weyburn . 
what not guardian not series good quality of grain . 
he Partnerships gelé yeas cause of ensemencement tardif owed at the time humide . 
what chargement of grain we took rapporté at the total 3600 Expenditures gross . 
the amount of the chèque guardian of 1 400 Expenditures . 
i him ai said that he allait recevoir series facture . 
we entendons plein of stories of what kind . 
the price of the grain has been very bas . 
the price of the lin is still tombé of 40,000 cents yesterday . 
health situation not is not also mauvaise fell Saskatchewan , where the Income moyen is at his standpoint the most bas since 1933 . 
these figures 6,000 of them departments of the Agriculture . 
we awakened a grave problem Act them bras . 
the Government fact of the initiative of the government , non only the price of them products of basic has descended , but we connaissons also the graves difficulties , notamment at the subheading of them tarifs of transportation of them marchandises . 
bye maintes occasions , business farmers acclaimed indiqué that the tiers of them incomes provenant of health sale of their grain passait fell fees of transportation of what grain toward the abroad , car we analyzed enclavés . 
we awakened heard what morning them producers of wheat tendre of the Alberta , lesquels acclaimed soulevé of importantes questions regarding the transportation of their grain . 
i guess that some of these changes apply imposaient . 
the elevator at grain of Macoum at been rasé at the bulldozer . 
i me trouvais at Seattle at what moment - là and I am tombé Act mon petit - son . 
he has voulu savoir why I avais shirts make confirms . 
the problem prend series dimension affective , car streets them Prairies , business people acclaimed the habitude of see a silo - elevator all levels nine miles ; they Cutbacks part of the décor . 
bye the seen the everything confirms , the foreign changes apply imposaient . 
i am the agreement . 
however , these changes auraient avoided perhaps amenés very différemment . 
i cannot veux not politiser the debate , and pourtant I dois remind some of them programs overburdened fell place by the government Conservative yeas protect them farmers . 
he rereads has strokes the Régime of insurance - income gross , whose business retombées acclaimed been bénéfiques yeas we . 
what is the senator Hays , if I cannot me abuse , who me has répété at maintes occasions fell committee that we devrions we atteler at Act réactualisation of these programs of protection of them incomes . 
our program not guardian not perfect , but we devons we pourvoir of programs semblables at term term yeas aller of the prior . 
we analyzed can - perhaps all at remiss , streets series certaine measure . 
we awakened strokes few bonnes years at the surveillance desquelles we cannot we analyzed not much souciés of the problem and , well heard , health something Act more importante guardian of juguler the deficit of the époque . 
i believe that we reconnaissons all that we étions fell train of losing the control of the deficit . 
however , certaines measures that we awakened négligé of prendre at the hook of the Agriculture auraient licences of avoid the us retrouver streets Act situation where we analyzed today today . 
honourable senators , confirms me amène at the program ACRA . 
the government has overburdened much of money streets what program , but he not works not . 
we awakened heard say at maintes occasions that he not fonctionnait not . 
i dispel appoint the foreign farmers who acclaimed received from the money , but who never auraient not owed fell recevoir . 
he tangibly réformer what program fell depth . 
i believe that he is obvious yeas all that what is necessary . 
bye mon notice , series injection directe of capitaux aurait rose to bons results , and what is the opinion exprimée by the foreign farmers at Regina and at Estevan lors of them meetings auxquelles I ai attended . 
confirms aurait avoided prendre Act form of a payment at the acre . 
bye breaching standpoint these needs are - they pressants ? 
he rereads has series grave crisis and celle - ci entraîne of them problems Cultural . 
some cases are too tragiques yeas perhaps racontés . 
the foreign people are flocked explain their situation lors of meetings and acclaimed éclaté fell sanglots . 
according certaines persons , until at 3:15 suicides petitioners directly attribuables at Act crisis Farm . 
transport farmers are the foreign people very fiers . 
ses grands - parents acclaimed traversé Act Russia with series Gotcha cow . 
until at the age of 82 years , dapper grandfather - mother has trait them cows . 
she never gave never shirts them siens forget that their first cow has sauvé Act life of ses two garçons and their has licences of venir at the Canada . 
the government has the foreign decisions graves at prendre and I think that he fera what that he convient . 
i him fais confidence , account tenu of everyone what who has been said and the everything what who is done yeas sensibiliser them media and the government at Act situation . 
the committee Standing of the another place apply is montré very réceptif at them testimony that he has entendus at what topic . 
the minister of the Agriculture of health Saskatchewan me has asked to the help at make her exposé appeared the committee Standing . 
transport members of the committee acclaimed listened carefully . 
they submariners déposer a report which reprendra well - Provincial elements that I fais valoir today today . 
i hope that royal response arranged positive yeas our farmers . 
transport problems Cultural acclaimed of them repercussions non only Act them families and Oceans exploitations agricultural , but also Act the whole of health collectivité . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
the time to the Honourable Senator Gustafson is elapsed . 
the Honourable Senator request he Act leave of continue ? 
the senator Gustafson : 
yes . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
honourable senators , health leave is - she granted ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Gustafson : 
i veux parler briefly of them repercussions of unabated situation Act them communities and the foreign effects of them measures positives that the government prend . 
these people - là créent of the Employment . 
they remettent fell état them tracteurs , business trucks and health machinerie . 
blunt Act collectivité bénéficie of their work . 
if the snakes dépense 1 Expenditures streets the sector Farm , unabated somme apply multiplie by seven , but what is là series everything another question . 
i cannot ai not the time to aborder a topic also important . 
the apport economic of the Agriculture is the third fell importance at the Canada . 
the Agriculture canadienne rapporte of énormes bénéfices at the Treasury . 
we cannot pouvons we permettre of laisser tomber unabated industry . 
each senator has Act responsibility , non only at the level attain , but also streets Act region that he represents , the veiller at what that the government adopte of them measures positives afin of help our farmers at court and at term term . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Kinsella , at the name of the senator LeBreton , the debate is adjourned . ) 
bill to Bill facilitant Act prise of certaines decisions médicales 
second reading - Poursuite of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Carstairs , seconded by the Honourable Senator pin , Refer at Act second reading of the bill to Bill S - 2 , Act facilitant Act prise of decisions médicales legitimate relatively at them traitements of survival and at the treatment of health douleur . - 
( the Honourable Senator Lavoie - Roux ) . 
the Honourable Ione Christensen : 
honourable senators , I prends Act parole yeas appuyer the bill to Bill S - 2 , Act facilitant Act prise of decisions médicales legitimate relatively at them traitements of survival and at the treatment of health douleur . 
since 15 years , I ai strokes the honour to perhaps Act principale soignante , the thanking , the condolences parents , puis of a very vieil ami , a enseignant , who never Partnerships not to family and Partnerships need to care quotidiens . 
bye the moment where these three persons acclaimed atteint the standpoint where they specialist need to care palliative and the médicaments against Act douleur , I étais Act human of trust appeared apply ensure that their souhaits étaient respectés . 
streets them three case , we awakened strokes of them discussions approfondies Act what that thin souhaitaient fell matière of traitements of survival and the lutte against Act douleur , puis with their doctors yeas veiller at what that their souhaits soient inscrits streets their file . 
toward Act end , when Act lutte against Act douleur , the alimentation and the hydratation artificielles are devenues nécessaires , I ai been appelée yeas reaffirm their souhaits puisque thin not étaient more fell measure of the make . 
streets two case , I avais a mandate fell good and due form , but , yeas these three persons , I savais what that thin voulaient and I ai avoided make adhere their souhaits . 
that serait - he arrivé if I cannot avais not been là ? 
i ai learned that foreign doctors and the staff infirmier hésitaient at not not dispenser of them care of treatment of survival . 
they étaient streets series Zone grise , laquelle fact richly the objet of the bill to Bill No. 
we awakened heavily need to lines directrices nationales , the programs of sensibilisation Public and , mostly , the formation professionnelle fell care palliative . 
bye the approach to the nouveau millennium , series grande proportion of our population fingertips need to care semblables , and we devons perhaps loans at fill what need . 
i thank the senator Carstairs and Oceans other honourable who acclaimed contributed at braquer them projecteurs Act unabated question . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
honourable senators , bearer section restera sciences at the name of the senator Lavoie - Roux . 
bibliothèque of the Parliament 
passage of the Prime report of the committee Joint Standing 
the Senate proceeded at the study of the Prime report of the committee Joint Standing of health Library of the Parliament ( mandate of the committee ) , presented at the Senate Committee 8 December 1999 . - ( Le hon. Senator Robichaud , P ( Le Acadie - Acadia ) ( . 
the Honourable Louis J . Robichaud : 
honourable senators , I move : Adopted of what report . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée , and the report is passed . ) 
languages Languages 
passage of the Prime report of the committee Joint Standing 
the Senate proceeded at the study of the Prime report of the committee Joint Standing of them languages Languages ( quorum ) , presented at the Sénatle 8 December 1999 . - ( Le hon. Senator Losier - Cool ) . 
the Honourable Rose - Marie Losier - Cool : 
honourable senators , I move : Adopted of what report . 
the Honourable Serge Joyal ( His Honour the Speaker Acting ) : 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée , and the report is passed . ) 
review of health policy canadienne antidrogues 
motion autorisant Act training of a committee sénatorial Special - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Day motion of the Honourable Senator Nolin , supported by the Honourable Senator Cohen : 
that a committee Special of the Senate authorized formé afin of reassess them laws and Oceans political Forces antidrogues , the consult abondamment Act population canadienne yeas determine them needs spécifiques of them différentes regions of the country , more particularly là where them problems Cultural liés at the trafic and at the usage of drogues illicites are more manifestes , the élaborer of them proposals yeas diffuser blunt information relative at Act policy canadienne antidrogues and , finally , the produire of them recommendations yeas fell arriver at the adoption of series strategy antidrogues implementation at the standpoint by and yeas them Canadians encourageant all levels paliers of government at travailler fell canvas collaboration at Act reduction of them méfaits liés at Act consumption of drogues illicites . 
without that what who suit ait yeas effect of restreindre his mandate , that the committee authorized authorized at : 
perhaps réexaminer the approach adoptée by the government federal yeas combattre Act consumption of drogues illicites at the Canada , his effectiveness commentator moyen of reduce them effects of health consumption of stupéfiants and health measure streets laquelle his application is fair ; 
perhaps élaborer series policy national of reduction of them méfaits afin of atténuer them impacts négatifs of health consumption of drogues illicites at the Canada and make the foreign recommendations Act Act way of appliquer unabated policy , notamment Act possibility of considérer before everything the usage and the abus of drogues commentator a problem socio - sanitaire ; 
perhaps And them models of reduction of them méfaits adoptés by the other countries and determine , run he rereads aurait instead , the foreign appliquer partiellement ou intégralement , at the Canada ; 
perhaps examiner the role and Oceans obligations internationales who incombent at the Canada fell vertu of them conventions of them Nations Nations Act them stupéfiants , the Day Declaration Universal of them rights of the man and the other treaties connexes afin of determine whether these treaties the autorisent at prendre of them measures other than them poursuites criminelles and health pénalisation of them Offenders at the échelle international ; 
perhaps explorer them effects of the cannabis Act Act health and And Act question of savoir if the Employment of political alternatives at the topic of the usage of the cannabis conduirait at series increase the Government usage and the Government abus at court and at term term ; 
perhaps And Act possibility that the government use of the power to regulatory that wouldn confère Act Act Act them contraventions commentator moyen Supplementary of appliquer series policy of reduction of them méfaits commentator he is the usage streets of other juridictions ; 
perhaps And blunt another question relative at Act policy canadienne antidrogues that the committee Justice appropriée yeas accomplir his mandate . 
that the committee Special authorized composed of five senators and that the quorum authorized to three members ; 
that the committee ait the power to make subpoenas of them persons and the produire of them documents , the hear from them witnesses , the make report of time at another and the make imprimer at the day the day documents , mémoires and testimony according them instructions of the committee ; 
that foreign mémoires reçus and Oceans testimony entendus lors of the examination of the bill to Bill C - 8 , Act Convey Act Act regulatory of certaines drogues and the their précurseurs analyzed that the other substances , by the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional durant Act second session of health trente - fifth législature , soient déférés at the committee ; 
that the committee authorized habilité at autoriser , run he the judge opportun , health radiodiffusion , health télédiffusion and health diffusion by the biais of them media électroniques of health totalité or the genus part of ses deliberations and the foreign informations that he détient ; 
that the committee authorized authorized at sit during Senators ajournements of the Senate fell vertu of the paragraph 95 ( 2 ) the Government Rules of the Senate ; and 
that the committee présente his report final at the most later three years after Act date of dapper creation . - ( 
the Honourable Senator Kenny ) . 
the Honourable Colin Kenny : 
honourable senators , I prends Act parole today today yeas parler of health motion of the senator Nolin visant at former a committee sénatorial Special yeas reassess them laws and Oceans political Forces antidrogues . 
he is grandfather time to réexaminer our stratégies actuelles of lutte against Act consumption of drogues . 
honourable senators , he is obvious yeas we all that the attitude of them Canadians at the hook of them political antidrogues and the their results has changed . 
transport Canadians are the most fell more nombreux at reconnaître that foreign policies actuelles not donnent not them results souhaités . 
the foreign impotent of money importantes are investies streets the application of them laws antidrogues , but them problems Cultural and Oceans problems of health liés at Act drug continuent of ceased and prennent same of the ampleur . 
health creation of a committee Special chargé of the large mandate who is proposed serait the moyen ideal of consult the public . 
confirms aiderait at define them needs propres of them various regions . 
the foreign jurists and the foreign doctors experts recommanderaient series strategy antidrogue who tienne account the foreign aspects legal , the foreign problems of health and the foreign questions Projections . 
honourable senators , he remembered notional of series question pressante . 
more of series year apply is already écoulée since that Diane Riley has presented , fell November 1998 , his report Act them drogues and health policy Act them drogues at the Canada , report that she has rédigé yeas the senator Nolin . 
the time is venu of sonder them opinions of them Canadians , the see quelles are their values and the prendre fell account them costs and Oceans benefits of them political existantes . 
the information sur of them approches and models différents appliqués at the abroad aiderait at choose them political at élaborer yeas the Canada . 
transport questions legal , business problems of health and Oceans concerns Projections who faces rapportent at Act consumption of stupéfiants apply multiplient and gagnent constamment fell complexité . 
commentator he remembered notional of series question délicate , business governments acclaimed too often trend at the éluder . 
unabated attitude not is not streets the interest of the Canada and the ses citizens . 
health first recommendation of the report Riley wants that he rereads ait series inquiry Act Act policy canadienne fell matière of drogues and based ses relations with the right intérieur and international , there including individuals standards relatives at them rights of health human . 
the inquiry doit also porter Act them political and Oceans programs of other countries fell Act matière . 
since the tabling of the report , he not apply is done aucune inquiry . 
the senator Nolin we took all rendu service fell we rappelant that royal consumption of stupéfiants pose the importants problems auxquels we devons we intéresser . 
he we tangibly series information sûre at the topic of health consumption of drogues at the Canada . 
commentator a committee Special of the Senate aurait the power to interroger of them witnesses , the exiger Act production of documents and the recevoir of them mémoires and the foreign testimony , his report final serait series source fiable of information objectives . 
a committee Special could offer the standpoint of standpoint , the analysis , health reflection nécessaires yeas find the foreign solutions possibles at them problems that posent Act consumption of drogues and Oceans political antidrogue at the Canada . 
inutile of say that the government apply intéresse vivement at them results of series study commentator celle - là , and what is yeas the Senate series excellente opportunity to play a role of Prime plan streets what very important file . 
honourable senators , I you urge at appuyer Act motion of the senator Nolin Convey creation of a committee Special chargé of And Act question of the usage of drogues illégales at the Canada . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . ) 
bill to Bill Act Act protection of them information personnels and Oceans documents électroniques 
motion demandant at the committee of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology of scinder the bill to Bill fell two - Retrait of the article 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Murray , P , seconded by the Honourable Senator Beaudoin , 
that he authorized rose at the Comité sénatorial Standing auquel arranged renvoyé the bill to Bill C - 6 the instruction suivante : 
that he has the power to scinder the bill to Bill C - 6 , Act visant at facilitate and at promote the trade électronique fell protégeant them information personnels recueillis , utilisés or releases streets certaines circumstances , fell prévoyant the utilisation of afford électroniques yeas communiquer or enregistrer of the information and the foreign transactions and fell amend Act Act Act Act Evidence at the Canada , health Act Act them textes réglementaires and health Act Act Act révision of them laws , fell two bills of Bill , the Prime étant constitué of health Partie 1 and the Government Printed 1 with the foreign 209 and series clause of entrée fell vigueur and the second étant constitué of the rest of the bill to Bill and the foreign annexes 2 and 3 with the foreign 209 ; that foreign deliberations Act the second bill to Bill arresting perhaps delayed until after the study of the Prime ; that the one or the another of them bills of Bill can make the objet of a report at the Senate aussitôt after wheel been examined ; and that , indépendamment of them usages habituels , the Senate gives unabated instruction not regardless when after wheel been saisi of the bill to Bill , even after that the committee fingertips began the study . - ( 
the Honourable Senator Kirby ) . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I cannot takers not how the article No. 22 can demeurer at the Paper . 
he has been disposé of the bill to Bill and a message has been adressé at the another place . 
we cannot impotent not saisis of the bill to Bill C - 6 . 
he tangibly the rayer of the Paper . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
the agreement . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
transport honourable senators are - they of agreement yeas that unabated motion authorized withdrawn the Government Paper ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( the article is retiré . ) 
health freedom religieuse fell China fell report with them pactes internationaux of them Nations Nations 
inquiry - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act the inquiry of the Honourable Senator Wilson , calling the attention of the Senate Act Act freedom religieuse fell China fell report with them pactes internationaux of them Nations Nations . - ( 
the Honourable Senator Di Nino ) . 
the Honourable Consiglio Di Nino : 
honourable senators , commentator what is tomorrow Act Journée of them rights of the man , I tiens at participate at the debate Act unabated inquiry . 
what is with plaisir , fell fact , that I participe at the debate Act the inquiry of the senator Wilson Act Act freedom religieuse fell China . 
i voudrais profiter also the Government opportunity yeas 209 of them observations that has faites the senator Austin , activist Act what topic that Act Act question connexe of health situation of them rights of health human fell China . 
ses hosts chinois acclaimed owed much the inspirer . 
i ai been rather mystifié , however , by ses observations regarding the group witty Falun Gong , whose I parlerai a little more streets a instant . 
the senator Wilson has said that ses " partners religieux " , who are them Églises établies , I guess , considèrent the Falun Gong commentator series organization étrangère at the influence déstabilisante and dangereuse . 
i cannot takers not based whereupon apply fonde unabated affirmation rather hardie . 
i cannot ai certes nothing seen who puisse me amener at series pareille conclusion . 
commentator not the ignore without doubt not the senator Wilson , health Constitution chinoise garantit Act freedom of croyance . 
why therefore ses partners religieux and , partant , she - even , I présume , prennent - they the Falun Gong at part ? 
is - what because what is series of them five religions Languages of health China ? 
confirms me décevrait . 
i aurais cru that the senator Wilson , account tenu of his importance at the Breast of dapper community religieuse and the Hon. experience manifeste , serait more tolérante . 
fell passant , I ai read what morning that he rereads aurait 30 million for chrétiens chinois who risquent each day to perhaps arrêtés , battus or emprisonnés by foreign authorities chinoises . 
he seems that they not apply rendent not streets of them lieux of culte approuvés officially . 
he serait interesting to savoir if the senator Wilson or ses colleagues acclaimed posé Act question at their hosts durant their visit fell China . 
honourable senators , before that we interrompions our travaux yeas our vacances of summer , the senator Austin apply fell is commitments at moi yeas certaines observations that I avais faites at the topic of the respect to them rights of health human fell China . 
he Tisserant fell gros that I cherchais too Act confrontational and that we devrions perhaps more conciliants with them Chinois . 
fell of other termes , we devrions fermer them yeux Act some abus commis là - bas . 
he is obvious that I cannot puis perhaps the agreement with confirms . 
what is a well beau tableau , but he not is not totalement true . 
honourable senators , our relations with Act China are basées Act three summarizing volets . 
he rereads has everything of thanking the Immigration . 
i ai strokes condolences premiers contacts with Act China and Oceans Chinois at Act end of them years 50 , Robbie that I étais a jeune banquier streets the quartier chinois of Toronto . 
bye the incorrigible of them years , I ai gardé of them contacts with various members of health community chinoise and I dispel say without hesitation that their presence has helped at favoriser the essor of our country . 
transport Canadians to origin chinoise apportent series enormous contribution at the Canada . 
they travaillent durum and what are the foreign citizens honnêtes and loyaux . 
they élargissent and enrichissent our culture . 
the Canada is the grandfather winner yeas what who is the Government Immigration chinoise . 
however , til not dispel not say , according moi , that royal same something apply applies streets the case of the second volet of our relations with Act China , business affairs and the trade . 
streets them years précédant 1993 , these relations étaient relatively stables . 
transport échanges trading étaient at somewhat close équivalents . 
if I cannot me abuse , they étaient of the Order de2,5 billion to $ by year - each side . 
everyone confirms has changed when the government Present is arrivé at the power . 
since 1993 , business taxpayers Airports are forcés of subventionner , at coup of millions of $ , and til ignore the figure exact , business tentatives faites parM. Chr and ses colleagues on accroître Act presence of the Canada fell China and our débouchés Act the market chinois . 
transport results are catastrophiques , what is the least that til puisse say . 
fell fact , since unabated period , health value of them exports Forces toward Act China has baissé regularly Robbie that royal value of them importations has more than doubled . 
fell fact , she has virtually triplé , except mistake . 
the third volet of them reports that we entretenons with Act China pertains the role that the Canada has traditionnellement played commentator promoteur of them rights of health human . 
bye series époque , honourable senators , business governments Airports favorisaient of them values and the foreign idéaux who teamwork the envy of the world . 
unfortunately , commentator we the savons all , what not is not the case when he is question of health China . 
désormais , we cannot impotent more than a another group of people of affairs who cherchent at obtain the foreign markets . 
we cannot défendons absolument more the idea that he should there wheel a link between them rights of health human and the trade . 
the Prime Minister Chr said that our country has series too petite taille yeas influer Act Act China . 
Koppel . Chr we said that he is a grandfather ami of them leaders chinois . 
why not apply sert - he not to unabated friendship ? 
our meilleurs friends at the world are them citizens of them States - U.S. of America . 
our petite taille not we empêche not to them criticize . 
we the cynicism continuellement . 
why not pouvons - we not agir of health same way at the place to health China ? 
why réserver what treatment Special at the government chinois ? 
why the government chinois tient - he activist at forcer ses ressortissants at demeurer at the intérieur of them frontières of the country ? 
honourable senators , the summer last , few weeks after that the senator Austin ait rose at Act House the EI that royal China Partnerships changed yeas the better , the government chinois has appréhendé more of 30 40,000 of ses citizens . 
since what time , he has poursuivi them arrestations . 
yeas breaching crime ? 
according the government chinois and , I the guess , according them partners religieux of the senator Wilson , what is because that they adhèrent at the movement witty Falun Gong , whose I ai spoke he rereads has few minutes . 
fell more of appréhender toutes these individuals , the government has ordonné that most of 1.5 million for cassettes , the brochures and the other sections liés at the movement soient confisqués or détruits . 
he rereads has same strokes of them autodafés of books . 
honourable senators , he is something little difficult to apply conceive that he puisse there wheel of them autodafés of books at the aube of the third millennium . 
the foreign books acclaimed been brûlés during the Starr analyzed that underlies the regime nazi . 
transport communistes chinois seem now wheel added their name at unabated courte but néanmoins infâme list , and the senator Austin qualifie confirms of progress . 
honourable senators , fell me penchant Act Act question of them rights of health human , I cannot ai nullement the intent of diaboliser them Chinois . 
i believe firmly that foreign Chinois , ceux who are sensibilisés , are also horrifiés of see what who faces proceeded streets their countries . 
condolences commentaires visent therefore the government and non the Inuvialuit chinois . 
the Prime Minister said that we cannot awakened aucune influence . 
why Robbie his government continues he ' prêcher at the world entier the importance of them rights of health human ? 
what is the one of ses objectives fondamentaux . 
transport rights of health human not Cutbacks - they not part of health policy étrangère of the Canada ? 
confirms seems obvious . 
health particulars mentionnait also a document entitled : " Le Canada streets the world " . 
according what document , the Canada can apporter series importante collaboration at Act security international fell faisant Act promotion of them values Forces , what who comprend the respect to them rights of health human , the Day democracy and the Day primauté of the right . 
why not the cynicism - we not streets the case of health China ? 
why not cynicism - we not Act promotion of our values streets what case ? 
he seems that the snakes not entend not parler of another something that the foreign rencontres at haut level and at camera closed , the foreign symposiums multilatéraux , the foreign initiatives of cooperation and the foreign bills of dialogue . 
if the government believes that royal freedom of religion and Oceans rights of health human are the foreign pillars of our policy étrangère , he should the say at everything the world without exception . 
he should démontrer by ses mood that he has the courage to ses convictions . 
why the Prime Minister not apply lève he not appeared them representatives of the world yeas criticize the occupation of the Tibet or health persécution religieuse of the Falun Gong fell China ? 
transport contraintes commerciales are - thin if fortes or telecommunications se - disant links of friendship with them leaders chinois if faibles ? 
the Honourable Senator Wilson we said that ses partners religieux of China are the notice that the Falun Gong constitue series threat at Act stability of health China . 
what is strange . 
transport bouddhistes not are not series threat , business catholiques and Oceans protestants non more , and he seems that anguishes them uns anguishes them other not croient at the Prophète or at ceux who suivent them enseignements of the taoïsme . 
he not there has that foreign members of the Falun Gong . 
honourable senators , Monday of unabated week , the chairman validate , Rand Clinton , contrairement at his homologue Heritage , has done series statement at what topic . 
he has décrit the emprisonnement collectif of them members of the Falun Gong commentator 
... a example disturbing of series measure self at the encontre of people who entendent tester them limits of health freedom . 
and he has added rejecting : 
transport cibles of the government chinois not are not to them dissidents political , and we ignorons their practices and beliefs . 
but the principle not fell remains not least the same : freedom of conscience and freedom of association . 
i précise that foreign observations deM. Clinton allaient streets the same sense that the standpoint of standpoint exprimé the month last by foreign two Houses of the Congress validate . 
fell effect , streets series resolution concurrente , health House of them representatives and the Senate acclaimed exhorté Act China at cesser of persécuter the movement Falun Gong . 
health resolution faisait valoir at fair title that the prohibition of health secte Falun Gong violait Act own Constitution of health China . 
confirms is also contrary at the Covenant international Covenant at them rights civilians and political and at Act Declaration Universal of them rights of the man . 
honourable senators , at the moment where them Canadians are based on standpoint of saluting Act end of the Hanukkah and apply préparent at Act Christmas , we devrions all réfléchir at them values fondamentales that représentent these traditions . 
the festival of them Lumières , health birth of the Christ and Oceans other fêtes of the kind we rappellent that he rereads has the foreign values transcendantes that all levels men partagent and entretiennent . 
these manifestations we rappellent that he rereads has streets the world of them gloomy where these values are rejetées and Oceans êtres humans who them professent , persécutés . 
the moment is propice , I believe , yeas ceux of between us who goûtent them fruits of health freedom and the Day democracy of prier yeas our semblables who never acclaimed not unabated chance . 
streets our prières , honourable senators , we devrions also ask that the government reprenne ses esprits and circulation of the Canada ' grandfather champion of them rights of health human everywhere streets the world . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Poy , the debate is adjourned . ) 
the Estimates for them Estimates for 1999 - 2000 
notice of Motion Convey Authorized at the committee of them finances nationales of And them Budgets of them Estimates - Motion to amendment ? Stands of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Murray , P , seconded by the Honourable Senator Beaudoin , 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them finances nationales authorized authorized at And , afin of fell make report , business Estimates projetées streets the Estimates for them Estimates yeas the fiscal financier apply ending the 31 March 2000 ; and 
that the Comité présente his report at the most tardle 31 March 2000 ; 
and based Act motion of amendment to the Honourable Senator Robichaud , P ( Saint - Louis - Request - Kent ) , seconded by the Honourable Senator Hervieux - Payette , P , that royal motion authorized modifiée by adjonction , after them mots , " the Estimates for them Estimates yeas the fiscal financier apply ending the 31 March 2000 " the what who suit : 
" at the exception of them appropriation 1 , 5 and 10 of them Fisheries and Oceans ; 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them fisheries authorized authorized at And them Estimates projetées of them Fisheries and Oceans content streets the Estimates for them Estimates yeas the fiscal apply ending the 31 March 2000 ; and 
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin : 
fell of other mots , I ai adjourned the debate at the name of the senator Stollery , who is absent currently . 
i request that bearer section at the Order of the day authorized now sciences at the name of the senator Stollery . 
( the debate is reporté . ) 
the Sommet of health Francophonie 
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate ? Maintien of the article 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I request , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the paragraph 27 ( 3 ) the Government Rules , that bearer notice of inquiry rest at the Paper until at the congé of Christmas . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
is - what the agreement , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Hays : 
i vais fournir series explanation , if them senators ' désirent . 
honourable senators , bearer notice of inquiry disparaîtra of the Paper Questions Act next postponement puisque he rereads consigned since 14 days . 
i announcement at them honourable senators that I ai the intent of propose that the Senate apply ajourne at 4:00 hours Monday . 
the senator Gauthier voudrait intervene at what topic Tuesday . 
yeas that the notice of inquiry not authorized not rayé of the Paper before that the senator ait the opportunity to intervene , I request Act leave of prolonger the giveaway of sorte that he rereads rest until at the congé of Christmas . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , the senator Hays apply is now exprimé Act unabated inquiry . 
we , the what side - ci , not verrions not to objection at what that the notice of inquiry rest sciences at the name of the senator Gauthier and at what that the countdown of days of postponement revienne at a . 
we analyzed completely the agreement at what topic and entirety that the senator Gauthier intervienne at what topic Tuesday next or not regardless breaching another day . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
transport honourable senators are - they of agreement yeas that the notice of inquiry No. 1 , sciences at the name of the senator Gauthier , remains at the Paper ? 
the senator Hays : 
honourable senators , he is fair and correct the Day share of the senator Kinsella of interpréter condolences propos commentator if I me étais exprimé Act the inquiry . 
streets what case , commentator the senator Kinsella : has explained , the countdown of days of postponement regarding the inquiry revient at a yeas Act next postponement . 
confirms allows the achieve the but souhaité of series way more élégante , perhaps - perhaps , that what that I avais proposed . 
confirms me paraît satisfaisant . 
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin : 
honourable senators , I conteste the affirmation according laquelle the senator Hays , voire the senator Kinsella , run is exprimé Act the inquiry . 
what is at the senator who gives notice of series inquiry that revient the privilege of fell parler fell Prime . 
the senator Gauthier not apply is not yet prononcé Act what topic . 
heed yeas acquis that if series another person has spoke of unabated inquiry whose we cannot savons nothing , confirms has yeas effect of ramener at zéro the number of days sciences at the Paper serait create a dangerous precedent . 
rejecting said , if we décidons unanimement of ramener what figure at zéro , fell dépit of the fact that the senator Gauthier not has not yet fact his inquiry , what is series another affair , and I accepterais that we procédions of health sorte . 
the senator Kinsella : 
i souscris at the interpretation and at the council of the senator Corbin . 
i think that he has entièrement reason and I am everything at fact of agreement with him . 
mon analysis guardian erronée . 
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs : 
honourable senators , I think that if we convenions that the inquiry No. 1 paraisse streets the Paper - Status next postponement commentator if what guardian the Prime day , everything the world serait content . 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , supposons that series inquiry or series motion authorized inscrite at mon name and that I cannot puisse not fell parler Act week next . 
devrais - I invoquer what precedent yeas ask that we revenions at the day a without debate ? 
we devons make very attention at Act manner whose we appliquons what principle . 
the senator Gauthier has said that he prendrait Act parole Tuesday at the topic of the inquiry . 
he suffit of convenir that he can make her inquiry Tuesday , at the instead of create a precedent General , that he serait yeas them other very tentant of invoquer . 
jugeons rather each case at his deserves . 
the senator Hays : 
if what is acceptable , I prierai condolences colleagues on give their agreed . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
plaît - he at them honourable senators that royal motion continues at perhaps inscrite at the Paper Questions the name of the senator Gauthier until at Tuesday ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( the article is maintenu . ) 
transport rights of health human and Oceans conflits multiethniques 
inquiry - adjournment of the debate 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) , rose rose notice the 6 December 1999 : 
perhaps honourable senators , tel is the topic whose I veux parler . 
account tenu of the hour , I présenterai series version abrégée of condolences observations . 
if I veux parler today today to unabated question , what is that the senator Andreychuk has done savoir , streets Act statement that she has présentée at the beginning of health présente postponement , that tomorrow , the 10 December , is Act Journée international of them rights of the man . 
the senator Di Nino has also porté confirms at our attention when he has commitments Act parole everything at the hour . 
health Journée international of them rights of the man , the 10 December , is series journée importante yeas Act community international . 
commentator them Canadians accordent énormément of importance at them rights of health human , he convient , I believe , that we , the Day House upper of the Parliament , parlions everything spécialement of health Declaration Universal of them rights of the man . 
he is also important that we rappelions that a éminent Quebecer has participated at Act rédaction of health Declaration Universal of them rights of the man who has been proclaméele 10 December 1948 by the Assembly générale of them Nations Nations . 
bearer fall , at the ONU , streets a report that he has presented at the Council of security , whose the Canada is présentement a member permutant , the Present Secretary General , Kofi Annan , has spoke of health protection of them civilians at the surveillance of them conflits armés . 
the Secretary General has déclaré that , fell dépit of the adoption , at the surveillance des50 dernières years , the various conventions Act them rights internationaux , humanitaires and humans , he not apply proceeded at somewhat close not series journée without that the foreign civilians innocent soient intimidés , brutalisés , torturés and killed streets of them conflits armés . 
that he remembered agisse of mutilations at the Sierra Leone , the genocide at the Rwanda , the purification ethnic streets them Balkans or the disparitions fell America Latin , business parties at the foreign conflits violent sciemment these conventions Act them rights humans . 
honourable senators , health end of health War Cold has can - perhaps libéré the world of health threat of series War nucléaire généralisée . 
fell same time , however , since Act chute of the mur of Berlin , more of 4 million for persons acclaimed been tuées streets of them conflits violent and he remains the foreign million for refugees and the persons déplacées streets the world entier . 
transport events survenus streets them Balkans and elsewhere streets unabated Gotcha decade montrent at breaching standpoint he is urgent of apply attaquer at them complexités of them conflits multiethniques modernes . 
fell same time , we analyzed horrifiés by foreign terribles events who are survenus at the Rwanda fell 1994 . 
we reconnaissons that these enjeux are extremely complex . 
commentator the Secretary General ' has also fact remarquer , we admettons that the maintien of health peace and the Day security internationales nécessite series intervention at toutes them étapes of a conflict or the one conflict éventuel , afin of the avoid , the fell minimize them consequences and the cheering allegiances a term series once that he has began , or fell standpoint of réaliser the maintien of health peace and the édification of health peace , there including health reconciliation and the administration of health justice , series once the conflict terminé . 
the Canada participe vigoureusement at these interventions internationales , and we analyzed fiers that our country and Oceans Canadians puissent apporter of them contributions to what kind . 
toutes these actions are importantes . 
he tangibly equation fell question them vieilles ideas , there including health teachings of primauté of health sovereignty of them States and the Government integrity territoriale . 
commentator the has soutenu , fell September , the Secretary General Annan : 
the foreign notions of sovereignty strictly traditionnelles not arresting more accountable justice at them aspirations of all levels Peoples of accéder at their freedoms fondamentales ... 
the foreign abuses massives and systématiques of them rights of health human , where that thin puissent apply produire , not devraient not perhaps tolérées . 
honourable senators , health community international doit reconnaître that , with Act end of health War Cold , health safety of them persons , what who comprend their rights humans , devient more importante that royal security of them States . 
today today , til not présume more than the right international accorde series more grande priority at Act sovereignty of them States and at the integrity territoriale that at them rights of health human or at the autodétermination . 
honourable senators , I estimated that make the Day protection of them rights of health human the Prime principle of them relations internationales contribuerait grandement at avoid the foreign conflits multiethniques and at favoriser series democracy and series peace meilleures . 
we devons aller au - delà of the principle of health sovereignty of them States , who has dominé them relations internationales until at what day . 
we devons revert at them principles of health Declaration Universal of them rights of the man and at ceux of them conventions and the foreign treaties internationaux Act them rights of health human who acclaimed been élaborés at Act subsequently of health Declaration Universal and who faces fell inspirent . 
honourable senators , unfortunately , strength we is the reconnaître that foreign country acclaimed often , at the surveillance of them decades , failli at them commitments inscrits streets these instruments relatifs at them rights of health human . 
the haut - Commissioner of them Nations Nations at them rights of the man , Mary Robinson , ancienne patron of the Ireland , has admitted streets a exposé that she has done Act veille of the fiftieth anniversary of them Nations Nations Government 2000 last that : 
when til fact the countdown of 50 years of implementation fell place to instruments relatifs at them rights of the man and the 30 years of programs of developing of several billion to $ and the speech of haut level , business results not are guère impressionnants ... 
what is a tel failure that we devrions wheel shame . 
commentator the haut - Commissioner at them Nations Nations of them rights of the man , Ms Robinson , has added : 
fell what who pertains the établissement of standards , the work is done fell grande part . 
transport standards internationales fell what who pertains them rights of the man are fell place . 
health task yeas we all ... is the foreign appliquer . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Beaudoin , the debate is adjourned . ) 
bibliothèque of the Parliament 
withdrawal of health motion Convey Authorized at the committee Joint Standing of sit during Senators sittings of the Senate 
bye the Appeal of health motion No. 32 : 
that the Comité Joint Standing of health Library of the Parliament authorized authorized at sit during Senators sittings and Oceans ajournements of the Senate ; and 
that a message authorized Message at Act House of them Commons yeas the fell inform . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I request that unabated motion authorized withdrawn the Government Paper . 
health issue has been réglée by the adoption of the Prime standpoint figurant Subcommittee Act rubrique " Rapports of committees " regarding the committee Joint Standing of health Library of the Parliament . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
is - what the agreement , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is withdrawn . ) 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
motion Convey Authorized at the committee of And the état of the system of health - Adjourned of the debate 
the Honourable Michael Kirby , rose rose avisle Tuesday 28 October 1986 : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology authorized authorized at examiner , yeas fell make report , the état of the system of health at the Canada . 
more particularly , that the committee authorized authorized at examiner : 
has ) Changes principles fondamentaux Act lesquels is fondé the system public of health at the Canada ; 
d ) Le system of health at the Canada - pressure and contraintes ; 
e ) Le role of the government federal streets the system of health at the Canada ; 
that the Comité présente his report final at the most later the 14 December 2001 ; and 
that the Comité authorized authorized , by derogation at them rules usuelles , at déposer everything report auprès of the Clerk of the Senate if the Senate not seat not at what moment - là ; and that the report authorized réputé wheel been tabled at the Senate . 
what mandate has received the approval unanimous of them members of the committee . 
unabated study has yeas objet fondamental of prendre acte of them changes importants Act the standpoint of intervene streets the system of care of health yeas various reasons , notamment the Evolution demographics , business innovations pharmaceutiques and technological , and Oceans expectations nouvelles of them Canadians regarding their rights fell matière of care of health . 
transport members of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology estiment that what is probably , based on plan Housing , health issue stratégique Act more importante and also Act more controversée streets our country . 
transport repercussions of them costs liés at them care of health are telles that the system Present not arranged fort probably not viable Act the Mifflin economic streets a future prévisible . 
transport members of the committee veulent entreprendre series series of Studies who petitioners toutes liées at the foreign studies menées préalablement , the example their topic and according their progression logical . 
we voulons offer series gallery where the snakes rereads discuss , the genus manner générale , the Day policy canadienne of them care of health streets them years at venir and , more particularly , the Government role of the government federal . 
we espérons also , with the time , power élaborer series series of recommendations strategic at the intent of the government federal , recommendations regarding his role streets the system of care of health . 
if the Senate approuve what mandate , the committee steering élaborera , fell January , a plan to work détaillé who arranged submitted at them members of the committee , puis at ceux of the committee of health Economy Internal . 
the Honourable Consiglio Di Nino : 
honourable senators , puis - I poser few questions ? 
the chairman has he consulted the minister of health Health at what topic ? 
the case échéant , perhaps - he we make share of them results of these consultations ? 
the senator Kirby : 
if I avais consulted the minister of health Health and that he me Partnerships déconseillé of make unabated study , I me serais trouvé streets series situation délicate . 
if health motion is approuvée and that a plan to work is élaboré , I serai happy to me entretenir with them representatives of the Department . 
i cannot ai not spoke of unabated question at the minister anguishes at nil representative of the Department . 
the senator Di Nino : 
honourable senators , business questions of health chevauchent of them sectors of jurisdiction fédérale and provinciale . 
the chairman has he the intent of coopérer with them provinces or the coordonner them efforts déployés by foreign différents paliers when viendra the moment of planifier them travaux futurs of the committee ? 
the senator Kirby : 
honourable senators , I torn at respond , car the study serait axée Act the role of the government federal streets the field of health health . 
streets unabated optique , he serait desirable of discuss with the foreign ministers provinciaux and the foreign representatives of them provinces and the hear their testimony . 
the committee not has absolument not the intent of apply immiscer streets them questions of jurisdiction provinciale . 
we voulons determine quelles changes he particulars apporter at Act policy fédérale actuelle . 
the senator Di Nino : 
honourable senators , business care of health relèvent primarily of them provinces and the foreign territories . 
transport patients are directly and primarily touchés by foreign provinces . 
i me request how what type of study can perhaps réalisé without Act cooperation sérieuse of ceux who fournissent them services of health at the public . 
he tangibly well understand how these rôles arresting changer streets Act future structure of them care of health . 
the senator Kirby : 
honourable senators , I am entièrement of agreement with the senator Di Nino . 
i répondais at dapper first question when I ai said that the committee entendrait them witnesses from them governments provinciaux . 
everyone commentator Act reason who me pousse at not not parler at the minister of health Health before the approval of unabated study by the Senate , we cynicism attention at not not wheel the air of approve or the adopt the referred to series question at a committee sénatorial Act Act basic of a veto of them governments provinciaux . 
the another share , the government dd and the nombreuses other organizations are the foreign participants at share entière streets these issues and we souhaitons them consult durant the process . 
the senator Di Nino : 
honourable senators , I cannot souhaite not prolonger what debate . 
confirms créerait - he a problem at the committee if I ajournais what debate until at what that I puisse obtain them commentaires of them members of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology ? 
the senator Kirby : 
honourable senators , he rereads aurait a problem if health motion not guardian not approuvée before the adjournment of Christmas . 
if the Senate approuve what mandate , we awakened the intent of travailler fell January at the élaboration of a plan détaillé . 
i cannot ferai not bearer effort if we cannot awakened not the approval . 
the senator Di Nino : 
i cannot créerai not to retard . 
i voudrais add something something . 
we entreprenons much of Studies and the travaux fell committee without that he rereads ait of debate at the Senate or with very little of debate . 
analyzed , when we dépensons cent 40,000 Expenditures or more , he tangibly that foreign Canadians who the désirent puissent savoir of whereupon he retourne fell lisant our deliberations . 
what is very sain . 
by conséquent , if you not prostituted not to objection , we ourselves pencherons Act Act question Act week next and I proposerai the adjournment of the debate . 
the Honourable Nicholas W . Taylor : 
honourable senators , I thank the senator Kirby of wheel overburdened unabated idea of the prior because that what is something something that the Senate may make and yeas lequel he is qualifié . 
i thank also the senator Di Nino of wheel soulevé series idea at laquelle I avais pensé , at savoir that he not serait not inutile of allegiances the accent Act the dd autant that Act the federal . 
i dirai that the idea of the senator Kirby of not not ask Act leave préalable at them ministers of health Health Care afraid of essuyer a refusal is good - and I parle fell knowledge of cause after wheel élevé nine children who acclaimed all utilisé unabated strategy . 
i know very well how unabated strategy works and she seems fonctionner . 
streets our system of health public , the élément private , by example , business cabinets of doctors , revêt always series certaine importance . 
if the committee fell Partnerships the time , he could apply pencher Act them reports between the Privy and the public . 
commentator them honourable senators ' savent , what is series question very controversée . 
the senator Kirby : 
honourable senators , I dirai that confirms arranged certainly series question that we examinerons fell detail . 
outre the fact that what is enough obvious , when til analysis them questions liées at them orientations payroll auxquelles the country is confronté , health issue of savoir if the system of health Present is really sustainable constitue Act question essential . 
what is what who we took poussés at entrer streets the debate . 
however , he rereads has three or four weeks , the government ' s Alberta has done series statement of principle Act Act construction of hospitals Woodlot at Calgary . 
ma reaction personnelle at Act Reading - unabated statement of the government ' s Alberta , what is that I ai trouvé unabated proposal everything at fact conforme at Act Act canadienne Act Act health . 
i the dis fell dépit of them propos very émotifs of series foule of people at the encontre of health proposal of the Alberta , there including the foreign people of the another place . 
authorized said fell passant , bob number of these people - là prétendent , streets their protestations , that royal proposal of the government ' s Alberta not is not conforme at Act Act canadienne Act Act health . 
he me seems that if we devons heed a debate Act blunt Act question of the system of health , he convient at everything the least the run fonder Act to them facts and based Act reality . 
what is why I think that we devons we pencher Act Act question of the sector private . 
i am everything at fact of agreement . 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , at the risk of me repeat ad nauseam , I dois express mon inquiétude understandings at the fact that the snakes request at the Senate that he gives carte blanche at a committee . 
i cannot ai nothing against the objet of the study , but what is analyzed that the snakes procède yeas toutes them demandes of them committees when he remembered notional of Studies who are also complex , détaillées and illimitées that celle - ci . 
unabated study durera a 2000 and half , voire davantage , car she could perhaps prolongée yeas of them reasons valables . 
the senator Nolin has asked the Authorized to heed series study which durera at the least three years , without even introduce to plan to work General anguishes of budget . 
combien coûtera unabated study at the Senate ? 
yet series once , honourable senators , I think that we cobwebs Act charrue before Senators boeufs . 
we donnons the Authorized , after whereupon , the committee of Economy Internal , notamment , doit apply arranger yeas find them fund , the staff and foremost the rest . 
health good way of procéder yeas a committee serait , the thanking , the établir his budget , the define his mandate and the fixer Act durée of the study . 
yeas ma share , I trouve that unabated way of procéder is préférable at celle where the snakes gives carte blanche at the committee without apply inquiéter of what that confirms coûtera and the Government time that confirms durera . 
the Honourable Colin Kenny : 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
nay , I cannot ai not done confirms . 
the senator Di Nino : 
honourable senators , I cannot believe not that what authorized là series question pertinente . 
i believe understand that , according the senator Lynch - Staunton , he we tangibly réexaminer the process that we awakened suivi until at now yeas see if we pourrions the improve fell exigeant , before the approve the study , the wheel at the least series idea of his cost . 
without specifying , he remembered could that we ourselves trouvions at approve series study whose the cost définitif apply élèverait at 40 million dollars , that we cannot awakened not . 
i believe that royal remarque of the Honourable Senator is very valable . 
i hope convince condolences colleagues , the Government less ceux of what side - ci who are members of the committee Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology , the réfléchir also at unabated question , fell espérant that we pourrons wheel series discussion ouverte at what topic Act week next . 
i cannot veux not étouffer the debate , but I serai happy to propose the adjournment , at least that something a result another not veuille prendre Act parole . 
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs : 
honourable senators , I me trouve at perhaps the agreement at Act once with the senator Lynch - Staunton and with the senator Kenny , even if their positions are diamétralement opposées . 
i vais you explain why . 
the rules of the Senate to the Canada not allows not at a committee of ask the Government money before that his mandate not ait been approved . 
i am the agreement with the senator Lynch - Staunton yeas say that we cynicism them things at the loyalty , what is - at - say that before the autoriser a committee at make series study , we devrions wheel series idea of what that she coûtera . 
what is exactly why , when I ai fact ma request , perhaps I believe that what guardian he rereads has two weeks - I ai rose a Senate a plan to work and indiqué the cost approximatif of what plan to work . 
incidemment , what budget has been submitted what morning at the committee of health Economy Internal , who the has coupé of half . 
the committee of health Economy Internal estimait - and he remembered trouve that I am the agreement with him Act what standpoint - that he not Partnerships not series enough good idea of what that foreign other committees réclameraient ; he has therefore decided to prévoir them amounts budgétaires phase by phase . 
according moi , we awakened soulevé bearer after - afternoon a problem understandings at our rules and at our procedures . 
the senator Kirby has presented at the name of the committee series request for study spéciale that all levels members of what committee acclaimed seconded at the unanimously . 
he capitalists therefore apply introduce appeared the Senate , pursuant at our rules Present , yeas saisir the Senate to unabated proposal and obtain Act leave voulue before the power ensuite prepare a budget appeared perhaps renvoyé at the subamendment - Committee chargé of them Budgets and , fell end of account , at the committee of health Economy Internal . 
i cannot am not fell désaccord with Act Position of the senator Lynch - Staunton . 
fell fact , I am the agreement with him and we awakened already strokes of them discussions at what topic streets the past car what is , according moi , health way whose we devrions procéder . 
the senator Kenny : 
honourable senators , I cannot takers really nothing to evil streets them provisions actuelles of the rules . 
i cannot believe not that the committee of health Economy Internal should decide yeas we Act quelles studies or interpellations we pouvons we pencher . 
i cannot trouve nothing at redire at the model proposed by the senator Carstairs , what is - at - say that the committee gives series estimation générale of them costs of the study . 
he remembered notional fell somme of a process fell two étapes . 
if the approval not complements not to a side commentator of the another , the study not apply fera not . 
health first phase BNA at obtain the approval of the Senate . 
health second is the run adresser at the committee of health Economy Internal streets the espoir of obtaining them resources Projections voulues . 
if the Senate refuses his approval , inutile of apply adresser at Act Economy Internal . 
if the Senate gives his aval , tandis that royal Economy Internal not has not to whereupon financer correctement the study , the committee is private of afford and not can réaliser the study . 
he serait without doubt possible at his chairman of saisir the Senate to the problem and the fell appeler of the report of health Economy Internal , what that everyone Senator is fell right to make . 
i estimated by against that he is evil of apply adresser of thanking at the committee , who may make barrier at the bill . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Di Nino , the debate is adjourned . ) 
adjournment 
leave rose been granted to revert at them notice of Motion to the government : 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the alinéa 58 ( 1 ) 1:30 ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that , when the Senate apply adjourns today today , what authorized until at Monday next , the 13 December 1999 , at 4:00 hours . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
leave granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
( the Senate apply ajourne at the Monday 13 December 1999 , at 4:00 hours . ) 
debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
2e Session , Session Session , 
volume 138 , Issue 20 
the Monday 13 December 1999 
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker 
table of them Contents 
the Late of the Honourable R . James Balfour , Q Q . 
tribute 
the SENATE 
the Monday 13 December 1999 
health postponement is ouverte at 4:00 hours , the Speaker étant at the fauteuil . 
prayers . 
the Late of the Honourable R . James Balfour , Q Q . 
tribute 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , by respect yeas our colleague who complements of décéder , the Honourable Senator Balfour , I you invite at you lever and at observer with moi series minute of silence . 
( budgets senators observent series minute of silence . ) 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , fell signe of respect yeas our former colleague , the senator Balfour , I move that the Senate apply ajourne now . 
( the Senate apply ajourne at 14 hours tomorrow . ) 
debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
2e Session , Session Session , 
volume 138 , Issue 21 
the Tuesday 14 December 1999 
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker 
table of them Contents 
the Late of the Honourable R . James Balfour , Q Q . 
tributes 
STATEMENTS STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
the Manitoba 
health Première Nation of Cross Lake - Ex rate of suicide élevé 
the Brunswick - Brunswick 
the bill to Bill visant at établir a day to commémoration of the Holocaust 
transport Games olympic spéciaux 
Ottawa - Comments Games of Winter of the 2000 2000 
visitor of Gallery 
languages Languages 
health Act to implementation fell implementation of the Agreement Act Act Station spatiale international civile 
report révisé of the committee 
the adjournment 
bill to Bill Act the Agreement définitif nisga' has 
first Reading 
bill to Bill of appropriation No. 2 yeas 1999 - 2000 
first Reading 
the Association Parliamentary Canada - NATO 
health delegation at Act session Annual of 1999 tenue at Amsterdam , at them Pays - Bas - ô of the report 
transport recommendations of health Commission Royal Act them Peoples aboriginal regarding health function self autochtone 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee of them Peoples aboriginal at Extend Act date of Presented of his report final 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
transport Affairs Intergovernmental 
the bill to Bill Act Act clarté of the process référendaire - Comments modalités of application 
health Court Supreme 
health terminologie regarding health decision Act the referred Covenant at the referendum 
transport transport 
health Nova Scotia Nova Scotia Le commitment to the government federal - élargir at four voies Act road 101 
transport finances 
health répartition of appropriation at the subheading of the Régime of Pension Plan the Canada fell case of rupture of the wedding 
health health 
health possibility of a settlement regarding the adjonction of caféine at them boissons 
health request for series study Act them effects of health caféine 
the retard streets Act publication of the report scientifique 
transport fisheries and Oceans océans 
health Garde côtière - Comments offres of croisière at them premiers ministers 
answers delayed at the foreign questions Oral 
the economy 
the achat of grandes companies by the foreign companies américaines - Possibility policy of the government 
Élections Canada 
the Manitoba - Possibility loss of data confidentielles - Ex transfer of data personnelles - Ex principle of the consent - Comments procedures of security regarding Casual data personnelles 
the trade international 
the failure to them discussions at the Organization World of the trade - Comments grants agricultural of them States members - Ex assistance at them farmers Airports 
the Heritage 
the status of the Museum commemorative of the Holocaust 
orders OF THE 
health Act to implementation fell implementation of the Agreement Act Act Station spatiale international civile 
third reading - Suspended of the debate 
transport travaux of the Senate 
the Sommet of health Francophonie 
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate 
health law of implementation fell implementation of the Agreement Act Act Station spatiale international civile 
third reading 
bill to Bill of 1999 yeas Act implementation fell implementation of conventions fiscales 
third reading - Adjourned of the debate 
the speech of the trône 
motion of Adopted of the adresse fell response 
the speech of the trône 
the Adresse fell response - Motion Refer at Act end of the debate on eighth day to postponement - Retrait of the article 
health Act Act Act dénonciation streets Act function Public 
second reading - adjournment of the debate 
health Act Act Act Assent Royal 
health Act Act the Parliament of the Canada 
bill to Bill Amend - Second Reading - Continued of the debate 
health Act Act the Immigration 
bill to Bill Amend - Second Reading - Adjourned of the debate 
the décret tabled pursuant at Act Act Act them transport at the Canada autorisant of them discussions Act series proposal of the sector private visant the achat of series society aérienne - Rapport of the committee of them transport and the foreign Communications - Adjourned of the debate 
Economy Internal , Budgets and Administration 
passage of the second report of the committee 
the Estimates for them Estimates for 1999 - 2000 
Authorized at the committee of them finances nationales of And the Estimates for them Estimates 
withdrawal of health motion of amendment 
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe 
the Organization yeas Act security and health cooperation fell Europe ? Position eighth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary tenue at Saint - Petersbourg , fell Russia - Interpellation 
the Ontario 
health Act Act Act restructuring régionale - Ex refusal of the government ontarien of adopt Act recommendation visant at make the Ottawa series city bilingue - Interpellation - Adjourned of the debate 
the Senate 
motion of maintien of health procedure of Assent Royal - Maintien of health motion 
the SENATE 
the Tuesday 14 December 1999 
health postponement is ouverte at 14 hours , the Speaker étant at the fauteuil . 
prayers . 
the Late of the Honourable R . James Balfour , Q Q . 
tributes 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , not more later than Act week dernière , I me am entretenu with our colleague Jim Balfour , whose the Late survenu streets Act focuses of Sunday we took all affligés . 
he guardian commentator he has been during blunt dapper life - series life marquée by more of series tragedy personnelle - , what is - at - say stoïque , énergique and , by - dessus everything , optimiste . 
he is death at Act subsequently of series attest illness , who has necessity of them traitements difficiles and douloureux , without yeas autant entamer dapper volonté of vivre . 
never I cannot the ai heard apply plaindre or even montrer of them signes of découragement , Robbie same that he savait that toutes them interventions médicales apply avéreraient inutiles . 
i laisse at the other , more competent that moi , the soin of make the éloge of dapper brillante career , activist privacy that Public . 
what who me frappait chez him , what étaient them traits caractéristiques who teamwork of him a estimé colleague and ami . 
loyal , dévoué and engagé , he guardian always loan at sit when his vote guardian requis , at the détriment of obligations personnelles urgentes , and always désolé when Act illness the empêchait of prendre share at them travaux of health House . 
combien of once him has til said to make mood dapper health fell Prime instead and combien of once not fell has he nothing fact ? 
yet the year dernière , durant series period of rémission , Robbie that his cancer semblait wheel been vaincu , he has accepted with enthusiasm Act Ruling - Government Subcommittee - Committee on them Affairs - Provincial Veterans Veterans , when the senator Phillips has commitments dapper retirement . 
he croyait that streets what role , he could contributing at the improvement of them conditions of life of ceux and celles who acclaimed served their patrie . 
he has always regretté that foreign things apply soient produites if brutalement . 
that what authorized at the caucus , at Act House or at the Breast of a committee , ses interventions étaient always écoutées with much of attention car dapper wisdom and dapper logical donnaient series tournure particulière at everything debate . 
Être sage , what is posséder the experience and health knowledge and savoir them appliquer judicieusement . 
analyzed fell guardian - he ' Jim , also well at the Parliament fell activist that member éminent that chez him commentator fidèle ami . 
certes , he rereads has something consolation at penser that what deuil is partagé by few - uns , but confirms not reduced fell nothing the immensité of our loss . 
i offers condolences sincères condolences at dapper family . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I déplore , with condolences colleagues , health disparition of the senator Jim Balfour . 
the senator Balfour guardian a result condolences friends , commentator he the guardian yeas much of between you . 
i ai much apprécié Jim Balfour and the incredible experience whose he has done profiter unabated House fell activist that lawyer , man of affairs , former MP federal and Senator . 
thanks at his experience , he guardian capable of aller at the heart of them problems and the make series enormous contribution at the bon government ' s Canada , rejecting by the intermédiaire of the Senate . 
i cannot ai not done part of the subamendment - Committee with him streets unabated ability , but I ai observé the senator Balfour streets his role of President of the subamendment - Committee chargé of examiner them questions of health defence national , notamment the role of maintien of health peace that joue the Canada streets the world . 
fell 1993 , the committee that he présidait has tabled streets bearer place a report which relevait absolument of health prescience . 
he identifiait of them points which , if til apply there guardian attaqué Robbie , auraient licences of avoid a grandfather number of them problems auxquels apply are heurtés our efforts of maintien of health peace these dernières years . 
the senator Balfour aimait dapper family . 
i the know because that we étions friends , and at cause of them nombreuses discussions that we awakened eues durant Act illness of his wife and the other events familiaux , whose some tragiques . 
the senator Balfour , his bon sense and dapper vigueur we manqueront énormément . 
i me joins at them honourable senators yeas adresser at dapper family condolences very sincères condolences . 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
honourable senators , confirms fact 38 years that Jim Balfour and moi impotent friends . 
penser at dapper life and at dapper death revient at méditer Act the courage and health tolerance . 
fell 1958 , at the age of 30 years , Jim Balfour has lost his unique brother at the issue of series attest and douloureuse illness . 
fell 1990 , Jim and dapper wife Jane acclaimed lost their higher jeune son of way tragic . 
fell 1994 , Jane is décédée of series attest illness who the Partnerships heavily affaiblie . 
fell 1996 , Jim has received from ses doctors a pronostic prévoyant dapper own death . 
dapper family , quoique non épargnée by foreign malheurs , guardian very talentueuse and she has connu series grande Success . 
his father guardian member of health Court Supreme of health Saskatchewan . Jim has continué streets series society of lawyers at Regina who portait the name of them Balfour . 
he is became man of affairs and steering of congruent . 
he guardian généreux streets ses activities volunteers , puis he has entamé series life Public . 
he has served 7 years at Act House of them Commons and 20 years at the Senate . 
loin of apply replier Act him ? same and not apply apitoyant never Act his fate , he has concentré blunt his attention Act his duty and based ses interests until at them derniers instants . 
when ses friends apply enquéraient of dapper health , he faisait Evidence of series grande franchise and the one réalisme total . 
puis he orientait Act conversation toward them questions who occupaient his mind at what moment - là . 
lors of series conversation that I ai eue recently with him , these issues étaient the état of them terrains military of the Canada , health colère of health Saskatchewan rurale , the Museum of health War at Ottawa and , well heard , business perspectives of the Party Conservative federal . 
he supportait all ses problems of way décontractée and assumait toutes ses responsibilities with a sérieux and series integrity exemplaires . 
what guardian a man hon. , and the example of dapper life and the dapper death is a héritage whose arresting perhaps fiers dapper family , ses friends and ses colleagues . 
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk : 
honourable senators , I voudrais moi also adresser condolences condolences at Act family of the senator Balfour . 
when I am arrival at Regina fell 1976 yeas preoccupation mon station of Justice , I connaissais already Act family Balfour . 
til not can apply promener streets Regina without tomber Act a standpoint of interest auquel unabated family has rose his name or shirts dapper Gallery . 
i ai connu the senator Balfour indirectement at partir of ses excellentes accomplishments . 
streets Act profession , Jim Balfour guardian a man réservé . 
always well préparé . 
he their Tisserant non only how traiter the affair , but he their expliquait the importance of examiner of them questions more larges , the foreign questions more profondes and Oceans aspects moraux of blunt affair whose business courts étaient saisis . 
he Partnerships a respect yeas Act bill which no apply retrouvait not chez much streets Act province . 
the senator Balfour guardian also connu yeas ses actions political fell Saskatchewan . Pour ma share , after the wheel rencontré , I me demandais how he Partnerships avoided make the Government door - at - door , car he not Partnerships certes not Act personnalité and the exubérance that til associe often at them members of health class policy . 
pourtant , when I ai began at connaître Regina , series city who never guardian not Act mienne , I ai including that his attachement discret at virtually toutes them questions importait at them people of dapper city and the dapper province . 
he trouvait series way of make connaître his standpoint of standpoint Act series question and he cherchait series solution avantageuse yeas Act collectivité . 
i cannot think not that he rereads ait series question whose he not apply authorized not occupé discrètement . 
he not occupait never Act Ruling or the station the most fell standpoint , but he guardian always fell coulisse at give the foreign advice . 
he has done Evidence of the type of leadership which is Act Gallery of a man of State and not simply the one policy . 
with him , business two étaient synonymes . 
the senator Balfour Partnerships much of influence streets Act city of Regina . 
he can perhaps difficult to travailler streets series more petite collectivité when til has need to much of money and that til doit régler of grands problems . 
là still , he participait discrètement at the nombreux services communautaires . 
analyzed , he rejoignait series collectivité more large , ceux who never auraient normally not been associés at the senator Balfour and that we cannot aurions not connus here . 
ceux of between us who viennent of Regina arresting apply tribute streets of nombreux services communautaires yeas parler at them people and apply apercevoir that , là still , fell coulisses , the senator Balfour faisait fell sorte that the fate of them citizens afford to Regina authorized a little meilleur . 
the senator Balfour we manquera , but his implementation perdurera . 
the nombreuses persons at Regina étaient at the courant of dapper illness and espéraient secrètement that he remembered fell sortirait still series once . 
however , we analyzed nombreux at wheel including that royal end guardian proche when he is rentré Incidence them siens yeas effectuer of them recherches Act them origines of dapper family fell Saskatchewan , with Act discrétion that we him connaissions . 
we savions that he not guardian already more the same man , Robbie that until - là he guardian always tourné toward the future , and much of ses friends acclaimed including that he remembered préparait at the inexorable . 
honourable senators , we cannot oublierons not Jim Balfour and I hope that dapper family trouvera of the réconfort streets his implementation . 
the Honourable David Tkachuk : 
honourable senators , I voudrais prendre Act parole moi also at Act subsequently of the Late of the regretté Jim Balfour . 
he we arrive of them things when til is appointed at the Senate . 
he we is notamment rose to rencontrer of them persons whose we awakened heard parler , and Jim Balfour guardian the genus of these individuals . 
Jim has accompli what that we analyzed convenus of appeler fell Saskatchewan a exodus exploit policy ? at savoir that he has remporté yeas the Party Conservative a seat at Regina . 
yeas ceux Incidence them honourable senators who never familiar by Regina , that they sachent that when his steering of campaign him has asked , lors of health campaign électorale of 1958 , what that he convenait of make yeas mener at well unabated campaign at Regina , John Diefenbaker Partnerships responded : " Faites sauter Act city ! " 
streets them circles political , we analyzed convenus of appeler unabated city Act " place Cross " . 
all levels gauchistes of health Saskatchewan apply trouvent at Regina . 
Jim Balfour has done something something that little of Tories acclaimed succeeded . 
when Act population of Regina him has accordé Act victory streets unabated élection , she has montré blunt the estimated that she him portait . 
unabated victory has attiré Act him the attention deM. Clark , who the has appointed at the Senate fell 1979 . 
i cannot connaissais not very well Jim , well that I aie heard parler of him . 
the genus of them bonnes things which me soient arrivées is that I ai avoided better the apprécier fell the côtoyant at the Breast of the caucus . 
i admirais his integrity and his honesty . 
honourable senators , I vais révéler series something that I ai observée during condolences six years of presence at the caucus and what is that Jim Balfour savait fell venir at the fact . 
what guardian a man who never parlait not much , but ses interventions arrivaient always at standpoint appointed and ses advice étaient of them more prisés by all . 
they me manqueront much . 
bye the name of them members of ma family and the all levels residents of ma city , I dispel affirmer that Jim has much fact yeas our province . 
he has always done Evidence of bon sense and he we manquera much . 
i transmets therefore our most sincères condolences and sympathies at dapper family . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I you mover of course vouloir you lever and you join at moi yeas observer a moment of silence at Act memory of our colleague and ami décédé , the senator James Balfour . 
( budgets senators observent series minute of silence . ) 
STATEMENTS STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
the Manitoba 
health Première Nation of Cross Lake - Ex rate of suicide élevé 
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs : 
honourable senators , I query porter at the attention of the Senate business conditions tragiques streets lesquelles vivent them members of health Première Nation of Cross Lake , series contingency située streets Act part north of the Manitoba , at the south of Thompson . 
honourable senators , at the surveillance of them five derniers months , seven residents of unabated community of 4000 âmes apply are enlevé Act life . 
cent other acclaimed unsuccessfully of the make at the surveillance of health same period . 
these statistics are effarantes and til not can apply permettre of them ignorer . 
he rereads has the other aspects alarmants at unabated history . 
the way générale , business initiatives of lutte against the suicide streets them communaut visent primarily them young men because that they acclaimed always constitué the group the most at risk . 
however , streets Act Première Nation of Cross Lake , health majority of them persons rose unsuccessfully of apply enlever Act life étaient seniors of 20 at 1:30 years and he rereads Partnerships autant of men that the women . 
the most jeune at wheel unsuccessfully of apply suicider streets them derniers months guardian âgé of nine years . 
he is difficult yeas moi of understanding the carking who could pousser a jeune of nine years at vouloir apply tirer series balle streets Act tête . 
he is also difficult to conceive the same carking chez series grandfather - mother of 59 years . 
honourable senators , til not can apply permettre of mood unabated crisis Subcommittee silence . 
bye Act end of September , til has overburdened Act foot a service téléphonique of emergency téléphonique Standing . 
i cannot dispel that présumer that what service has licences of reduce the number of suicides . 
however , the budget of 15 40,000 Expenditures who there has been accordé arranged soon épuisé . 
we devons we ensure that what service rereads compter Act to them fund additional yeas power continue at fonctionner . 
much more important still , honourable senators , we devons corriger them problems systémiques who , streets unabated community , donnent these results horribles . 
the Brunswick - Brunswick 
a bill to Bill of initiative Parliamentary has been presented at the assemblée legislative by the Member Conservative Eric MacKenzie afin that the snakes commémore each year ' Holocaust . 
when the assemblée legislative approuvera the bill to Bill unabated week , health province of the Brunswick - Brunswick , the where I viens , arranged Act third province of the Canada at désigner series journée where we ourselves souviendrons of them atrocities whose the humanity is capable , the assassinat systématique of millions of men , the women and the children , by example , and where we ourselves rappellerons of them thousands of soldiers , men and women , who acclaimed combattu outre - sea yeas renverser Act machine at tuer of the Third Reich and libérer them camps of health death . 
the Prime day to commémoration of the Holocaust at the Brunswick - Brunswick arranged the 2,500 May 2000 . 
health province of the Ontario has passed series measure legislative similar the 2000 last and the government ' s Île - du - Prince Edward Édouard has passed series bill Convey Act Act Journée of commémoration of the Holocaust Act week dernière . 
bye toutes these provinces , I dis " merci " . 
bye the moment of the tabling of health measure legislative , Rand MacKenzie has déclaré : 
bye Act end of the century the most violent streets the history of the humanity , we partageons the obligation at the aube of the nouveau millennium of remind the history and the fell tirer of them lessons . 
commentator the has written George Santayana : 
ceux who never arresting apply remind the past are condamnés at the repeat . 
he convenait well that unabated motion authorized présentée the 9 December étant rose that royal community international célébrait at unabated date two importants anniversaires fell matière of Rights of health human . 
the 9 December Gallery the 51e anniversary of the adoption of health Convention on them Nations Nations yeas Act prevention of the crime of genocide , who fact of the genocide series offence at the right international , and the 10 December marquele 51e anniversary of health proclamation of health Declaration Universal of them rights of the man . 
i am fière of unabated nouvelle measure legislative of the government Lord who remind series of them more choquantes abuses of them rights of health human . 
the souvenir of the Holocaust should fournir the impulsion necessary at series Opposition active at the racism and at Act haine . 
we cannot awakened that at feuilleter each day them newspapers yeas prendre knowledge of mood malveillants who Cutbacks ressortir the side noir of the existence humaine . 
honourable senators , étant rose that the time fact taire them survivants , he we incombe of parler of them lessons of the Holocaust fell quality of parliamentarians , the leaders of health collectivité and also the members of health race humaine . 
if I dispel me permettre a petit moment of partisanerie , honourable senators , you remarquerez that foreign three provinces who acclaimed proclamé series Journée of commémoration of the Holocaust are dirigées by the Party Progressive - Conservative . 
i hope that the government federal emboîtera soon the not and fera of health Journée of commémoration of the Holocaust series journée national of recueillement . 
transport Games olympic spéciaux 
Ottawa - Comments Games of Winter of the 2000 2000 
the Honourable Janis Johnson : 
honourable senators , I tiens at you consigned today today a événement important , car we ajournerons probably unabated week . 
i the fais at title of member of health Foundation for them Games olympic spéciaux of the Canada and the Volunteer of attest date . 
the événement whose I parle durera five days , at compter du25 January 2000 , when Act city of Ottawa and health region of health Capital national uncovered the hôte of them Games olympic spéciaux of Winter Airports . 
something 600 athletes and 200 entraîneurs viendront of everywhere at the Canada yeas participate at these games . 
something 600 parents and 1 200 volunteers viendront also soutenir them athletes . 
transport Games olympic spéciaux apply are already referendums series once at Ottawa , fell 1981 , when we awakened accueilli them games of summer . 
unabated once - ci , he remembered agira well course of them sports of Winter . 
we assisterons notamment at the foreign compétitions of skiing alpin , the skating artistique , the curling and the raquette . 
much of between us portons series grande estimated at Act cause of them Games olympic spéciaux , but everything the world not knows not that these games constitute of them events sportifs of haut calibre who , by their aspect spectaculaire , palatable soutenir Act comparaison with no regardless damned compétition athlétique . 
what is what that voulait the Dr. Frank Hayden , the Government University McMaster , who has 3.26 dapper life at Act cause of the conditionnement physical . 
you you rappellerez can - perhaps his famous program of five exercises of conditionnement physical that he Partnerships overburdened at the standpoint with the Aviation Royal canadienne . 
the Dr. Hayden not partageait not the hypothèse generally répandue that foreign children déficients mentaux , and more later them adults , étaient incapables of participate at them sports and at them programs of loisirs . 
fell soumettant a group of children at a program intense of conditionnement physical , the Dr. Hayden has démontré that foreign déficients mentaux pouvaient acquérir suffisamment of habiletés yeas apply livrer at the foreign compétitions athlétiques of level international . 
he has ensuite fondé them Games olympic spéciaux . 
transport Games olympic spéciaux apply are referendums yeas Act first once fell 1968 at Soldier Field , at Chicago , and these games comptent now more of a million for participants fell 140 country . 
these three benefits are still accrus by the appréciation and the soutien of a auditoire . 
i mover at all levels honourable senators ' try to assister at the genus of them activities of them Games olympic spéciaux at the surveillance of health week of the 25 January . 
they uncovered very impressionnés by Act determination and the héroïsme of our athletes . 
i ai attended at a grandfather number of these activities , at the Canada and at the abroad . 
bye mon notice , business Games olympic spéciaux symbolisent them bienfaits that may apporter the sport and the épanouissement of the corps and the Government spirit who complements at strength of determination , commentator fell témoignent our athletes . 
the oath of them Games olympic spéciaux is very eloquent . 
he is read at the beginning of composite of them games by a athlète who allume ensuite Act flame olympique . 
the oath said rejecting : 
faites that I gagne , sinon , faites that I sois courageux streets condolences efforts . 
honourable senators , I hope you see at them games . 
visitor of Gallery 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I you observance Act presence at our gallery of our colleague and amie recently retraitée , the Honourable Senator Marian Maloney . 
languages Languages 
Presented of the second report ducomité Joint Standing 
the Honourable Rose - Marie Losier - Cool , coprésidente of the committee Joint Standing of them languages Languages , présente the report suivant : 
the Tuesday 14 December 1999 
the Comité Joint Standing of them languages Languages has the honour to introduce his 
DEUXIÈME REPORT 
the Comité Joint Standing of them languages Languages has passed fell committee ' 7 December 1999 Act resolution suivante : 
he RESOLVED RESOLVED , perhaps Que the Comité Joint Standing of them languages Languages of the Senate and the Day House of them Commons is the notice that the assemblée legislative of the Ontario should établir by voie legislative , that royal city of Ottawa , Capital of the Canada has two languages Languages , the English and the French . 
respectfully submitted , 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when étudierons - we what report ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Losier - Cool , the study of the report is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement . ) 
health Act to implementation fell 9uvre of the Agreement Act Act Station spatiale international civile 
report révisé of the committee 
the Honourable Peter A . Stollery : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate , I query introduce Act version révisée of the fifth report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign , Convey Act the bill to Bill C - 4 , Act to implementation fell 9uvre of the Agreement Act Act Station spatiale international civile . 
yeas of them reasons techniques , business observations who auraient owed perhaps incluses streets our report , who fut presented the jeudi9 December 1999 , furent omises by inadvertance . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the Tuesday 14 December 1999 
the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign has the honour to introduce his 
CINQUIÈME REPORT RÉVISÉ 
your committee , auquel has been déféré the bill to Bill C - 4 , Act Convey implementation fell 9uvre of the Agreement conclu between the government ' s Canada , business governments of States members of the Agency spatiale European , the government ' s Japan , the government ' health Federation of Russia and the government ' States - U.S. of America Act Act cooperation relative at Act Station spatiale international civile and apportant of them changes connexes at the other Acts , has , pursuant at the Order of referred to the 1er December 1999 examined ledit bill to Bill and fell fact now report without amendment , but with them observations suivantes : 
the committee voudrait that two points precise soient réglés . 
premièrement , the committee is vivement intéressé at examiner has ) Senators regulations that the gouverneur fell council estimated nécessaires yeas the application of health présente bill and yeas give effect at the Agreement and b ) : code of conduct who établira Act chain of command applicable at them astronautes of health station spatiale . 
the committee , inquiet of health scope insuffisante of health provision regarding the notice of the Parliament , at the article 10 of the bill to Bill C - 4 , demand that the government ' s Canada , by the entremise of the Agency spatiale canadienne , him réfère them regulations and the code of conduct directly , blocks that they uncovered terminés , after wheel premièrement been released streets Act Gazette of the Canada . 
deuxièmement , the paragraph 11 ) 2.34 ) 
no définit not the expression " Canadian flight element " employée streets Act version anglaise of the alinéa 11 ) 2.31 ) 
b ) . 
the government ' s Canada , streets the bill to Bill of together who doit perhaps presented prochainement , should clarify the paragraph 11 ) 2.31 ) 
afin of régler them concerns of the committee at bearer regard . 
respectfully submitted , 
the adjournment 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the alinéa 58 ( 1 ) 1:30 ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that , when the Senate adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until at tomorrow , the Wednesday 15 December 1999 , at 1:30 1:30 30 . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
bill to Bill Act the Agreement définitif nisga' has 
first Reading 
his Honour the Speaker informe the Senate that he has received from them Communes a message accompagné of the bill to Bill C - 9 , Act Convey implementation fell vigueur of the Agreement définitif nisga' has . 
( the bill to Bill is read series first once . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series second once ? 
the Honourable Jack Austin : 
with Act leave , at Act next postponement of the Senate . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
leave granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
nay . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , usually , he tangibly a notice of two days before the procéder at the debate at the phase of health second reading and , if I comprends well , health leave of raccourcir what giveaway not is not granted . 
health second reading of the bill to Bill serait therefore inscrite at the Order of the day to health postponement of Thursday next . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
the consent étant refused , health second reading of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to health postponement of the Thursday 16 December 1999 . 
the Honourable Marcel Prud man : 
honourable senators , if tel is the desire to the Senate , perhaps - perhaps pourrions - we give the consent unanimous yeas fell finir with what Bill of Bill who has been examined the genus way if exhaustive at the another place ? 
his Honour the Speaker : 
is - what the agreement , honourable senators , yeas that royal second reading of the bill to Bill authorized inscrite at the Order of the day to Thursday next , the 16 December 1999 ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée and health second reading of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to health postponement of the Thursday 16 December 1999 . ) 
bill to Bill of appropriation No. 2 yeas 1999 - 2000 
first Reading 
his Honour the Speaker announcement that he has received from them Communes a message accompagné of the bill to Bill C - 21 , Act Convey octroi at Majesty Majesty of appropriation yeas the administration Public fédérale during the fiscal apply terminantle 31 March 2000 . 
( the bill to Bill is read series first once . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series second once ? 
health delegation at Act session Annual of 1999 tenue at Amsterdam , at them Pays - Bas - ô of the report 
the Honourable Bill Rompkey : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to déposer the third report of the Association Parliamentary Canada - NATO who représentait the Canada at Act 45e session Annual tenue at Amsterdam ( Pays - Bas ) , the Government 11 at the 15 November 1999 . 
transport recommendations of health Commission Royal Act them Peoples aboriginal regarding health function self autochtone 
notice of Motion autorisant the committee of them Peoples aboriginal at Extend Act date of Presented of his report final 
the Honourable Charlie Watt : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that Wednesday , the 15 December 1999 , I proposerai : 
that , by derogation at the Order adopted by the Sénatle 24 November 1999 , the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Peoples aboriginal authorized authorized at make series study and at introduce a report Act them recommendations of health Commission Royal Act them Peoples aboriginal ( Document Parliamentary No. 2 / 35 - 508 . ) 
relatively at Act function self autochtone and , more particularly , at obtain the standpoint of standpoint of them Peoples aboriginal and the foreign other intéressés Act them questions suivantes : 
2 . them mechanisms nécessaires at the implantation of them nouvelles relations structurelles ; 
3 . them models of self self autochtone nécessaires yeas respond at them needs of them Peoples aboriginal and yeas concorder with them nouvelles relations structurelles ; 
that the Comité authorized authorized at déposer his report final at the most later the 16 February 2000 , and that the Comité conserve them powers nécessaires at Act diffusion of them results of his study contenus streets his report final , and what until au29 February 2000 ; and 
that the Comité authorized authorized , nonobstant them practices habituelles , at déposer his report auprès of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that ledit report authorized réputé wheel been tabled at the Senate . 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
transport Affairs Intergovernmental 
the bill to Bill Act Act clarté of the process référendaire - Comments modalités of application 
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin : 
honourable senators , the article 2 . ) 2 ) the Government Bill of Bill Act Act clarté of the process référendaire définit them factors that royal House of them Commons doit considérer yeas determine whether series majority claire of Quebecers apply are prononcés yeas Act sécession of the Quebec . 
you you rappellerez that lors of the last referendum , 49,6p. cent of them Quebecers apply are prononcés fell favour of health sovereignty of the Quebec assortie of series offers the partnership at the rest of the Canada . 
50,4p. cent of them Quebecers apply are opposés at unabated option . 
if til analysis of a little more closely these pourcentages fell function of the appartenance ethnic of them Quebecers , business data of Statistics Canada and Oceans results by section of vote , til fell arrive at Act conclusion partagée by at somewhat close all levels expert that 62p. cent of them francophones apply are prononcés fell favour of the option souverainiste and , at the opposé , 95p. cent of them anglophones and 98p. cent of them allophones apply are prononcés against the option of the Party québécois . 
considérant that foreign francophones constitute Act majority of health population of the Quebec , that the vote of them anglophones and the foreign allophones is concentré sideshow streets certaines zones déterminées of the Quebec , the minister may - he we say if , fell case of series victory of the camp of the OUI of them indépendantistes - that I cannot research not to the everything - Status répartition ethnic and géographique of the vote arranged prise fell considération lors of the examination of health clarté of health majority of them constituents who faces uncovered prononcés fell favour of unabated option ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , he rereads has two volets at everything confirms , commentator Act Court Supreme the has well underlined . 
the Prime , what is Act clarté of health issue , and the bill to Bill is enough explicite at what topic . 
the second , what is Act majority claire , and what is what whose parle the Honourable Senator . 
health cour , streets ses deliberations and streets dapper decision , has well commitments soin of not not define fell detail quels factors petitioners commitments fell considération before the vote . 
the bill to Bill parle of some factors whose he faudra heed account . 
the bill to Bill not préjuge not to them circumstances and not décrit not specifically referred breaching level he faudra fixer Act limite , even if confirms has certainly owed perhaps tentant at some moments . 
bye bearer regard , the bill to Bill is everything at fact conforme at Act decision to health Court Supreme . 
the senator Nolin : 
honourable senators , what is Act reason yeas laquelle , streets mon preamble , I you ai rose them pourcentages . 
nil expert not has contesté that royal majority desQuébécois francophones , 62p. cent , laughed voted OUI at Act question of the Party québécois lors of the referendum of 1995 . 
bye the opposé , 95p. cent of them anglophones and 98p. cent of them allophones acclaimed voted NON . 
your bill to Bill not is - he not fell train of give less of importance at the vote of health majority francophone that at gerrymandering of health minorité anglophone and allophone ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , til not tente not streets the bill to Bill of accorder davantage of importance at series part of the électorat fell particular . 
certaines conditions uncovered examinées at the moment of the assessment of health quality of health majority . 
certaines of these conditions are énoncées streets the bill to Bill , and the other not the are not . 
confirms apply explique by the fact that til not can prévoir quelles considérations entreront fell line of account . 
however , the bill to Bill introduces clearly a review public of all levels factors . 
the essentiel , what is that all levels Quebecers , damned that authorized their origin ethnic , repositories power apply express clearly , by series majority claire , and that unabated majority authorized the outcome of series question claire who their has been posée . 
the senator Nolin : 
honourable senators , series majority claire not serait - she not series majority of chacune of them tranches ethniques of health population of the Quebec ? 
the senator Finestone : 
honourable senators , am - I series citoyenne of second class ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I torn , by principle , at determine at the avance them pourcentages precise yeas trancher unabated question . 
fidèle at the notice of health Court Supreme , the bill to Bill introduces that the snakes devra heed account the foreign circumstances existant at the moment of a futur referendum , what that feront them Protagonists political at what moment - là . 
espérons that confirms not arrivera never . 
however , là not is not Act question . 
i the répète , the bill to Bill not apply écarte not to the principle of the notice of health Court Supreme , who introduces that , at the moment opportun , business Protagonists political détermineront what who represents series majority suffisante . 
the bill to Bill énonce very specifically some of them factors whose he arranged tenu account . 
the Honourable Jean - Claude Rivest : 
honourable senators , fell what who pertains Act question of the unity national , I rappellerai at the minister that according the history récente of the Canada , health Gotcha way effective of combattre the séparatisme at the Quebec is yeas the government ' s Canada ' wheel series vision Act them reports between the Quebec and the whole of health society canadienne . 
i fais notamment référence at the époque of Lester B . Pearson or the Brian Mulroney , where the rate of adhésion at the séparatisme Partnerships baissé of 20 at 25p. cent . 
historiquement , at the Quebec , he rereads has strokes two façons yeas them parties sovereignists or séparatistes of try to obtain the adhésion of them Quebecers at the idea of the independence : Act voie référendaire yeas obtain series majority of OUI at Act question and health pluralité of representatives at the Assembly national at the surveillance of series élection , commentator celle of 1966 with the RIN , and fell 1970 and fell 1973 with the Party québécois of René Lévesque . 
according unabated second option , the government souverainiste elected aurait procédé at series statement of sovereignty . 
the Present bill to Bill of the government not traite that the Day voie référendaire . 
that arriverait - he at the unity of the Canada if a party souverainiste at the Quebec revenait at Act proposal of René Lévesque of the beginning of them years 70 , what is - at - say that the élection of a government ' s Party québécois , who is a government clearly souverainiste , impliquerait , based series simple majority of Members at the Assembly national , health implementation fell 9uvre of health separation of the rest of the Canada ? 
the bill to Bill not said nothing là - dessus . 
yeas you montrer the character saugrenu of the intervention of the government federal streets what debate , streets unabated first hypothèse , the Party québécois Tisserant that with the élection of a government souverainiste and what mandate of health population , he procéderait at the independence , commentator confirms apply is done fell 1970 and fell 1973 . 
they not acclaimed not gagné , but what guardian their program . 
according unabated hypothèse , the government federal adopterait - he series bill yeas determine Act nature of health plate - form électorale of the Party québécois yeas clarify his option Act Act sovereignty ? 
you comprenez why Act Position of the government Heritage not is not acceptée by the whole of them stakeholders at the Quebec and why she is saugrenue . 
why the government Heritage not exprime he not his opinion , commentator what is his right to the make ? 
he is everything at fact légitime that he the circulation because that he is the guardian Prime of the unity national . 
that he laisse at the Assembly national and , particularly at the Party Liberal of the Quebec , the door - parole fédéraliste Act the territory québécois , the soin of make Act bataille Act Act clarté of health issue and based Act définiton of health majority . 
confirms aiderait of series way much more convenable the option fédéraliste and the option of the unity canadienne . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , health issue of the Honourable Senator is enough complex , activist by dapper longueur that by dapper nature . 
the Prime Minister of the Quebec has déclaré that he has the intent of heed a another referendum when business conditions gagnantes uncovered réunies . 
he is obvious that , fell activist that citizens responsables and that government federal responsible , we devons respond at unabated statement . 
what that the government proposes is simple and obvious . 
he we incombe of prendre the Prime Minister of the Quebec at the word . 
apply he tient a another referendum , we devons we ensure that he pose series question claire and that he comprenne well that he doit obtain series majority claire before the power agir . 
i cannot takers not how quiconque at the Quebec or elsewhere at the Canada could apply opposer at confirms . 
the Prime Minister of the Quebec not has he not the intent of poser series question claire ? 
has he the intent of agir otherwise ? 
damned is his objection at the fair ? 
if I me souviens well , the Prime Minister of the Quebec has loué unabated decision . 
a result them elements fondamentaux of unabated decision is that royal population of the Canada and the government ' s Canada acclaimed a role at play . 
personally , I détesterais see the government apply soustraire at his role . 
the senator Rivest : 
honourable senators , the minister me indique that the government Heritage has decided to agir at what moment - ci because that the Prime Minister of the Quebec has déclaré vouloir heed a referendum . 
why the very hon. Pierre Elliott Trudeau , after wheel heard René Lévesque say , at the lendemain of his élection fell 1976 , that he allait heed a referendum Act Act sovereignty , not has he not decided to introduce , him who guardian wharfinger of the unity national , a bill to Bill yeas determine them paramètres of health issue and the Day majority ? 
the very hon. Pierre Elliott Trudeau not guardian - he not also soucieux of the unity canadienne and the Day protection of them interests of the whole of them Canadians that the Present Prime Minister of the Canada ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , the Prime Minister Trudeau apply préoccupait énormément of the unity canadienne . 
however , we voilà streets series situation where , apparemment with the approval of the Prime Minister of the Quebec and certainly the Hon. homologue of the Canada , health Court Supreme has éclairci unabated question commentator never confirms not apply is done streets our history . 
we cannot avions not pareille decision Act dernière once ; we the awakened now . 
if I me souviens well , what is series decision which has received the aval of the Prime Minister of the Quebec . 
streets dapper decision , health Court Supreme has établi some criteria very clairs . 
she gives analyzed at the government federal series opportunity reasonable of situer these issues streets series perspective claire , Robbie that we cannot we trouvons not fell pleine bataille référendaire . 
fell gros , the government insiste Act two points simples , but fondamentaux . 
if series province quelconque , and not only the Quebec , wants apply séparer of the Canada , he wouldn tangibly poser series question claire at dapper population and obtain series response claire . 
confirms is true , that he remembered agisse of the Alberta , the Day British - British or the Day Nova Scotia Nova and , certainly , nothing not saurait perhaps more reasonable . 
however , the government federal not is not tenu of agir if these conditions not are not respectées . 
the senator Rivest : 
honourable senators , I ai series question Supplementary at poser . 
the minister could - he we citer the passage of the judgment of health Court Supreme of the Canada who asks at the Parliament Heritage of abdicate ? 
is - what that the judgment of health Court Supreme of the Canada , who said what that the minister complements of say , and I fell conviens volontiers , has strength of Bill at the Canada ? 
and why not not laisser Jean Charest and the Party Liberal of the Quebec livrer unabated bataille and remind at the government ' s Quebec fell place that : 
health law of the country is énoncée streets Act decision to health Court Supreme of the Canada . 
we cannot awakened not need to the bill to Bill deM. Dion . 
the senator Boudreau : 
what is là a argument différent , honourable senators . 
if series human said that we cannot fell awakened not need or that the moment chosen yeas the introduce not convient not , she laisse Robbie clearly hear that he not there has not to désaccord . 
health Court Supreme has indiqué very clearly that he rereads has the foreign factors whose he tangibly heed account . 
i me ferais a plaisir of equation a copy of health decision to health Court Supreme at the Honourable Senator . 
the senator Ghitter : 
répondez at Act question ! 
the senator Boudreau : 
what Bill of Bill shows that foreign two parties acclaimed of them responsibilities . 
the government ' s Canada has clearly assumé dapper responsibility with the bill to Bill No. 
the government federal has done connaître dapper Position at Act population of the country of series way very reasonable and has précisé them factors whose he remembered servirait yeas determine whether them conditions prescribed streets Act decision to health Court Supreme are respectées . 
these factors petitioners fort utiles yeas everything citizen of not regardless damned province canadienne who aurait at prendre series decision définitive , if til him request for health prendre streets the future . 
health Court Supreme 
health terminologie regarding health decision Act the referred Covenant at the referendum 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , at the surveillance of health brève series of questions who has been posée until at now at what topic , I ai accounted that the Leader of the government at the Senate has utilisé ten once the word " decision " fell parlant of the notice rose by Act Court Supreme of the Canada . 
bye mon notice , if we devons traiter of series question of series importance also cruciale , we devons perhaps very prudents and very precise streets Act way whose we employons them mots . 
the minister not convient - he not that the referred presented by the government ' s Canada at Act Court Supreme sollicitait non not series decision , but rather a notice ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , commentator the said : hon. Senator , he remembered agissait of a referred and health Court Supreme of the Canada has rose a notice , I fell conviens . 
what is a notice who has been well accueilli at the époque by the Prime Minister of the Quebec . 
transport transport 
health Nova Scotia Nova Scotia Le commitment to the government federal - élargir at four voies Act road 101 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , I voudrais savoir when we allons obtain these helicopters . 
i voudrais also savoir where the minister of them Transport and the chairman of Onex are today today . 
however , I pensais that the minister disorderly a petit better health issue suivante . 
commentator the minister ' knows , he seems there wheel series certaine confusion fell what who pertains them commitments fédéraux relatively at the assistance at apporter at Act Nova Scotia Nova yeas the élargissement at four voies of health road 101 who traverse Act Valley Resource the Annapolis . 
the minister could - he specifying at the Senate breaching commitment has been commitments at the hook of our province at bearer regard ? 
apply he not has not series response immediate , he serait can - perhaps loan at us transmettre series response écrite the most earlier possible . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I vais certainly Auditing auprès of the minister of them Transport yeas savoir where fell are them things . 
i ai attended recently at series meeting where what topic has been abordé by the minister and , except mistake , a parliamentarian of the another place who represents Act region fell question . 
commentator the Honourable Senator the knows by experience , the choice of them bills routiers relève of health jurisdiction provinciale . 
the government dd détermine them priorities puis request them appropriation fédéraux . 
the government federal finance fell part these Imposition fell function of health list of priorities établie by the government dd . 
i believe that the minister has indiqué that he étudierait can - perhaps series éventuelle request venant of the government dd . 
fell fact , certaines provisions spéciales arresting perhaps prises . 
however , at ma knowledge , aucune request for what kind not has been transmise until at now . 
i fais unabated affirmation Subcommittee blunt contingency , car I cannot ai not spoke at the minister of dictatorship since series week and demie . 
transport finances 
health répartition of appropriation at the subheading of the Régime of Pension Plan the Canada fell case of rupture of the wedding 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
series Gotcha of these five questions has never been boot streets the release of press of the government and what guardian Act decision to continue to chercher of them afford to apply ensure that foreign appropriation at the subheading of the CPP are divisés at Act subsequently of health rupture of the wedding , commentator Act bill the introduces . 
too often , confirms not apply product not , even if what is obligatoire at them termes of health law . 
til we said that foreign governments federal and provinciaux essaient still the régler unabated question . 
nothing not has changed at the surveillance of them two dernières years . 
the Leader of the government could - he say at the Senate if the expression " examiner Act possibilitéx constitue series way élégante of say " perhaps - perhaps that yes , perhaps - perhaps that non " ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I cannot know not streets damned measure the government and , more particularly , the minister of them Finance , examine unabated question . 
however , I serai very pleased to me renseigner and the fournir series response at the senator . 
the senator Oliver : 
i thank the Leader of the government . 
honourable senators , commentator the minister ' knows , health plupart of them Canadiennes vivent their dernières years streets Act poverty , after perhaps demeurées at the foyer during that their husband guardian Act the market - Government work , and thin not reçoivent aucune pension . 
the Leader of the government could - he we fournir of them information sur two other points ? 
premièrement , could - he say at the Senate breaching is the état exact of them travaux exploratoires and the Government Bill pilote éventuel ? 
deuxièmement , could - he we say why , two years later later , what problem cannot has always not been réglé , particularly yeas them women who acclaimed worked at the foyer , and non at the outside ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I serais ravi of add these other demandes of information . 
health health 
health possibility of a settlement regarding the adjonction of caféine at them boissons 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
honourable senators , series series of articles parus streets The Ottawa Citizen Cutbacks état of a file Act Act caféine who is currently at the study at Health Canada . 
he remembered notional of permettre or non at them manufacturers of boissons gazeuses of add the Day caféine at the foreign boissons telles that Mountain Dew . 
what spring , the Senate has passed at the unanimously series motion at bearer regard , and unabated series of articles suscite of nouvelles questions . 
i query fell raise few - unes . 
premièrement , the Leader of the government at the Senate may - he indiquer if , yes or non , the government respectera Act motion of the Senate fell not amend not Act regulatory actuelle who interdit the adjonction of caféine at them boissons gazeuses of agrumes activist that til not is not course that royal health of them Canadians , notamment them children and Oceans young , not fell souffrira not ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I thank the Honourable Senator of dapper question . 
bye ma knowledge , he not is not question fell what moment of modify Act policy self at bearer regard , but I vais me enquérir auprès of the minister of health Health afin of Welfare at day streets what file . 
health request for series study Act them effects of health caféine 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
honourable senators , a report parviendra at the minister , but we him awakened wrote a certain number of letters , streets the sillage of unabated resolution , the enjoignant of not nothing make , the run settle the say nay . 
according them sections fell question , the foreign hauts officials of Health Canada acclaimed déclaré that they not possèdent not to figures Act Act quantité of caféine that foreign Canadians ingèrent already fell consommant of them boissons gazeuses , the Government chocolat , the Government café and the Government thé - Request toutes sources . 
they disent not wheel more than two opportunities . 
they arresting apply proud at them data that their remet the industry or élaborer the worst scénario . 
i think that he rereads fell has series third . 
they arresting ask at Statistics Canada ' their fournir of them data of basic . 
the Honourable Minister could - he ask at the minister of health Health Care exiger the témoignage of series source impartiale yeas determine whether justice health of them Canadians arranged compromise or non ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I cannot know not at the fair if the Honourable Senator request that the exigence consigned Act them formulaires of Statistics Canada . 
the senator Spivak : 
yes , afin of établir them data of basic . 
the senator Boudreau : 
fell fact , I believe that til is fell train of define them information at ask . 
i cannot know not at the fair where fell are these travaux , but I vais me renseigner . 
i vais transmettre Act request for the Honourable Senator . 
the senator Spivak : 
merci . 
the retard streets Act publication of the report scientifique 
the Honourable Mira Spivak : 
honourable senators , yeas more of precision , I observance that according a notice already paru streets Position Gazette of the Canada , health proposal of Pepsi - Cola serait approuvée , but bearer notice ajoute audacieusement that aucune study not has been introductory and that the objective Main BNA at harmoniser Mountain Dew , by example , at Act formula américaine . 
commentator til the knows , series canette of Mountain Dew contains more of caféine that several tasses of café . 
after wheel played at the hockey , business young , there including condolences grandchildren - child , not grab nothing to evil at prendre series boisson yeas sportifs telle that Mountain Dew . 
we allons désormais their serve the bonnes doses of caféine . 
health caféine is a psychotrope and should perhaps étiquetée fell activist that médicament . 
the blunt way , the report of the committee of scientific who répond at the minister capitalists , except mistake , perhaps terminé fell July last . 
the Honourable Minister could - he Auditing why , if what report capitalists perhaps terminé fell July , he not has not yet been rendu public ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
i serai happy to me renseigner Act bearer another topic at the name of the Honourable Senator . 
yeas what who is the Government fond of dapper question , he tangibly always établir a balance between the degree of regulatory of the activité humaine by the government and health freedom of choice . 
i reconnais Act legitimacy of health préoccupation of the Honourable Senator , but I cannot think not that we analyzed Act the standpoint of abdicate afin of interdire at them miners the access at them Tim Horton . 
the senator Spivak : 
honourable senators , I cannot dispel laisser mood unabated remarque without respond . 
we cannot impotent not fell train of adopt series measure legislative . 
we tentons of protect our young children against the adjonction of series drug psychotrope at a product that they consomment . 
he rereads has several other things commentator confirms . 
he not apply notional not to a settlement ; he remembered notional of prevention streets the interest of health health of them young children . 
he not tangibly not confondre them two . 
the senator Boudreau : 
i comprends the standpoint soulevé by the senator . 
however , commentator I the ai underlined , he rereads has a fair balance at achieve . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , before the give Act parole at the senator Kinsella , I query souligner that what arranged Act dernière question permise at the surveillance of unabated period of questions . 
transport fisheries and Oceans océans 
health Garde côtière - Comments offres of croisière at them premiers ministers 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , the summer last , the Sir Humphrey Gilbert of health Garde côtière of the Canada has emmené the Prime Minister Tobin and Oceans members of his cabinet fell croisière the term of them coasts of Newfoundland - Newfoundland . 
bye title of Minister policy of health Nova Scotia Nova , the minister is - he loan at make the foreign arrangements of what kind yeas the Prime Minister Hamm and ses colleagues at the surveillance of the summer next ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , non only vais - I refuser Act request for the senator , but I tiens at him ensure personally that I cannot prendrai never what kind of initiative . 
answers delayed at the foreign questions Oral 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I ai series response at Act question posée at the Senate Committee 24 November 1999 by the senator Oliver regarding the achat of grandes companies by the foreign companies américaines , series response at them questions posées at the Senate Committee 30 November 1999 by foreign senators Spivak and Andreychuk regarding the Manitoba , health loss of data confidentielles , the transfer of data personnelles and the principle of the consent yeas Act security of them data personnelles , series response at series question posée at the Senate Committee 6 December 1999 by the senator Andreychuk regarding the failure to them discussions at the Organization World of the trade Act Act question of them grants agricultural of them States members and the assistance at them farmers Airports , and finally series response at series question posée at the Senate Committee 8 December 1999 by the senator Kenny regarding the status of the Museum commemorative of the Holocaust . 
the economy 
the achat of grandes companies by the foreign companies américaines - Possibility policy of the government 
( response at Act question posée by the honorableDonald H . Oliver : 24 November 1999 ) 
certes , business achats of companies Forces by the foreign étrangers acclaimed commitments to the ampleur these derniers time , but he particulars examiner the phenomenon at more term term . 
transport investment directs Airports at the abroad apply are accrus more than them investment étrangers at the Canada during Senators years 90 , at the standpoint that , today today , business Canadians possèdent davantage of investment directs at the abroad that foreign étrangers not fell possèdent at the Canada . 
the rate of loses is a result them nombreux factors who incitent them étrangers at invest at the Canada . 
fell fact , the increase récente of them achats of companies Forces by the foreign étrangers has coïncidé with a raffermissement of the dollar Heritage . 
fell end of account , streets a world where the snakes apply fact competition yeas mobiliser of them $ of investment , the investment direct abroad at the Canada is series Gallery of trust streets our economy . 
transport investment directs 
Airports at the abroad 
transport investment étrangers 
directs at the Canada 
billion to Expenditures 
billion to Expenditures 
98T1 
8,1 
7,8 
98T2 
6,3 
3,6 
98T3 
14,9 
8,3 
98T4 
10,2 
4,7 
99T1 
4,5 
3,2 
Élections Canada 
the Manitoba - Possibility loss of data confidentielles - Ex transfer of data personnelles - Ex principle of the consent - Comments procedures of security regarding Casual data personnelles 
( response at them questions posées by the Honourable Mira Spivak and the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk : 30 November 1999 ) 
the government apply is engagé at protect them information personnels and , more particularly , at apply ensure that foreign information relatifs at them persons soient only utilisés and divulgués fell conformité with Act bill . 
Élections Canada sharing bearer commitment . 
yeas dresser the registre of them constituents , Élections Canada has asked the notice of bon number of expert , whose ceux of the Commissariat at Act protection of health life privacy of the Canada . 
health tenue of health list électorale nécessite of them information that Élections Canada receives the Government government federal and the foreign governments provinciaux and territorial . 
transport sources Change fédérales ( at savoir Revenue Canada and Citizenship and Citizenship Canada ) not transmettent of information personnels that with the consent of them intéressés . 
yeas obtain what consent , Revenue Canada has prévu , streets them formulaires of statement of the Income , series case streets laquelle til indique that the snakes consent at what that some information ( name , adresse , date of birth ) soient releases at Élections Canada . 
transport nouveaux Canadians arresting indiquer of health same way streets their request for citizenship that they consentent at the transfer of some information personnels at Élections Canada . 
Élections Canada has also conclu with them sources Change Provincial and territoriales ( by example , business bureaux of them véhicules automobiles and Oceans bureaux of the état Civil ) the foreign ententes touchant the envoi of information nécessaires at Act implementation at day to the registre of them constituents . 
these ententes reposent Act the hypothèse that the provider is authorized at transmettre what kind of information . 
health issue of the consent is therefore déterminée by foreign laws fell vigueur streets them provinces and territories . 
health law introduces that foreign information Message at Élections Canada not arresting perhaps utilisés that at the foreign purposes électorales . 
afin of protect the information contenue streets the registre of them constituents , Élections Canada has , blocks Act creation of the registre of them constituents , overburdened fell place to them systems of monitoring complex ( by the foreign préposés or by the foreign afford techniques ) , and instauré of them procedures well documentées of treatment of them data . 
by subsequently of health loss of health bunch renfermant the information obtenue relatively at them conducteurs manitobains , Élections Canada has chargé series company of security indépendante of Auditing all levels aspects of ses procedures fell matière of transfer Act bunch magnétique . 
the commissioner at Act protection of health life privacy of the Canada , Rand Bruce Phillips , has commandé dapper own inquiry . 
he remembered is said to agree Act them findings of health vérification . 
" after study of them circumstances entourant bearer incident , he not done nil doubt that royal loss of health bunch is the outcome of series simple mistake humaine , has écritM. Phillips . 
i am convaincu that Élections Canada has commitments various measures yeas avoid series situation similar at the future , and I cannot believe not that he faille formuler of them recommendations additionnelles yeas the instant . " 
he is important to noter that the commissioner at Act protection of health life privacy analyzed that foreign différentes sources appelées at contributing at Act implementation at day to the registre of them constituents are habilitées fell everything time at ask a review visant at apply ensure that foreign provisions régissant Act Donor , the emmagasinage , the actualisation and the utilisation of them data transmises at Élections Canada respectent well the right at Act life privacy of them constituents . 
the trade international 
the failure to them discussions at the Organization World of the trade - Comments grants agricultural of them States members - Ex assistance at them farmers Airports 
( response at Act question posée by the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk : 6 December 1999 ) 
the government ' s Canada is déterminé at favouring a system of handling and the transportation of the grain more solide and more efficient and at accroître Act responsibility loyalty them producers , who emigrate also fell bénéficier davantage . 
the objective that the government apply is fixé is the veiller at what that foreign producers profitent of them changes apportés at the system of handling and the transportation fell response at them recommendations of the judge Estey and at them proposals deM. Arthur Kroeger . 
he regardless of souligner that the government ' s Canada has always soutenu , everything at the term of what process , that series attention particulière capitalists perhaps granted at Act necessity of make profiter them producers of them retombées of a system more commercial and more competitive . 
the minister of them Transport , the Honourable David Collenette , has received them reports of them stakeholders and Oceans recommendations deM. Kroeger fell September last . 
the minister of them Transport , the concert with the minister responsible for health Commission canadienne of the Wheat and the minister of the Agriculture and the Government Agroalimentaire , has sparked of examiner these reports fell standpoint of determine the meilleur moyen of implanter a system of character more commercial . 
the government examinera soigneusement the report of them stakeholders and Oceans recommendations deM. Kroeger , the same that foreign results of them travaux Act them questions liées at them ports , at Act répartition of them cars - trémies and at Act réparation of them Imposition before the procéder at Act implementation fell implementation of a whole of reforms . 
the Heritage 
the status of the Museum commemorative of the Holocaust 
( response at Act question posée by the Honourable Colin Kennyle 8 December 1999 ) 
the government is conscient that at the aube of a nouveau millennium , business Canadians and Oceans Canadiennes repositories perhaps renseignés Act them crimes commis against the humanity , commentator the Holocaust , and understand them lessons of the past . 
anguishes the government , anguishes the Department of the Patrimoine Heritage , not apply are engagés at create a Museum of the Holocaust . 
thereafter at them discussions regarding Casual needs fell premises of the Museum Heritage of health War , the foreign officials of the Department of the Patrimoine Heritage acclaimed asked , at the name of health minister , at the Museum Heritage of them civilisations , the mener of them consultations afin of determine Act meilleure way of commémorer the Holocaust and Oceans other génocides . 
however , the calendar of these consultations not has not been établi . 
well that the government reconnaisse the importance of make connaître them crimes tragiques commis against the humanity at the XXe century , his role streets Act commémoration national of the Holocaust and the foreign other génocides not has not been déterminé . 
orders OF THE 
health Act to implementation fell implementation of the Agreement Act Act Station spatiale international civile 
third reading - Suspended of the debate 
his Honour the Speaker : 
plaît - he at them senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein : 
honourable senators , at first standpoint , the bill to Bill C - 4 is a bill to Bill inoffensif , délicieux same , who deserves the appui enthousiaste of them two parties représentés at the Senate . 
what is series measure who VI at allegiances fell implementation them agreements internationaux that the Canada has conclus Act Act cooperation relative at Act station spatiale . 
everyone the world not can therefore that appuyer the principle fondamental of the bill to Bill No. 
gerrymandering - ci has been passed prestement at the another place after several hours of debate and a review by the committee of health House of them Commons . 
i supports moi also the principle of the bill to Bill No. 
however , God or the devil knows what that we réservent them details . 
i ai jeté a coup of oeil Act the bill to Bill series first once when he has been submitted at a review rapide of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign . 
before Senators hearings on the committee , I ai asked at them hauts officials of the government why he guardian necessary to wheel the approval of the Parliament Robbie that foreign improvements internationales pouvaient perhaps mises fell implementation Act Act Gotcha approval of the cabinet . 
why ? 
because that the agreement introduces that foreign States members conviennent that their législation criminelle apply étende at Act station spatiale and at them vols at destination and fell provenance of health station spatiale . 
honourable senators , I me réfère therefore at the article 11 the Government Bill of Bill who modifie the Code criminal and at the article 22 of the Agreement yeas analyser them ramifications of unabated application extraterritoriale of our bill . 
i ai discovered that foreign States members incluaient the Union European , business States - U.S. , the Canada , the Japan and health Russia , and that foreign laws pénales of composite of these States apply appliqueraient . 
transport honourable senators apply souviendront of them amendments that I avais proposed at the bill to Bill C - 40 , health Act Act the extradition , supported by mon colleague the senator Joyal , afin of ôter at the minister of health Howe the power discrétionnaire streets the case of them demandes of extradition provenant of States where the accused could perhaps condamné at Act peine of death . 
health peine Capital has been abolie at the Canada he rereads has close to three decades . 
after a debate fell good and due form , these amendments specialist been rejetés at the Senate . 
transport honourable senators apply souviendront that foreign senators ' what side - ci of health House specialist suivi them consignes of the whip of the Party . 
the bill to Bill C - 4 ressuscite them mêmes questions who specialist fact the objet of them amendments rejetés streets the case of the bill deloi C - 40 . 
the minister of health Howe Custody the power discrétionnaire of decide or non - obtain the foreign guarantees of a Crown not rose not aboli Act peine Capital who asks the extradition , by example , the one Quebecer poursuivi yeas murder . 
i ai fact remarquer Act Position ingrate streets laquelle is overburdened the minister of health Howe who doit decide to series question of life or the death Robbie that royal bill canadienne is claire - more aucune condamnation at Act peine Capital . 
what authority redoutable apply applies now at the space atmosphérique with the bill to Bill C - 4 . 
cynicism series supposition . 
supposons that a Quebecer is accused of wheel commis a murder streets Act station spatiale . 
a Européen is also accused of wheel commis a murder streets Act station spatiale . 
the Canada and all levels country members of the Union European acclaimed aboli Act peine Capital . 
health station spatiale has been lancée at partir of the Texas , a Crown where Act peine Capital not has not been abolie . 
the Européen not could not perhaps extradé at the Texas , at least that bearer state not gives at the country member of the Union European fell question Act garantie that royal peine Capital not arranged not appliquée . 
fell revanche , our Prime of health Howe aurait the power discrétionnaire of decide or non - extrader the Quebecer with or without garantie that royal peine of death not arranged not appliquée . 
honourable senators , health Court Supreme has been saisie of unabated question by the Bergen of health cause Rafay and Burns whose we awakened spoke durant our debate Act the bill to Bill C - 40 . 
streets unabated affair , the minister of health Howe guardian loan at extrader toward the Texas two young Canadians to 18 years stir of crimes punissables of death without wheel the EI that royal peine of death not serait not appliquée streets their case . 
confirms guardian contrary at the article 7 to health Charter of them rights I believe and some judges of health Court of Appeal of health British - British étaient also the bearer notice . 
health cause fact now the objet of a Appeal appeared Act Court Supreme of the Canada who the has entendue the 5 October 1999 . 
health week dernière , at the committee of them Affairs Foreign , the foreign officials we acclaimed said that , by series ordonnance enough inhabituelle , health Court Supreme has asked to hear at nouveau them plaidoiries . 
by conséquent , health issue soulevée streets the amendment that the Senate Partnerships voulu apporter antérieurement at the bill to Bill C - 40 , and who has been rejeté at the Senate , is still at the study at Act Court Supreme of the Canada , quoique streets the context of them facts étroits of unabated cause fell particular . 
voilà why I me am abstenu of participate at the study section by section at the committee and voilà also why I ai the intent of not not participate at the study at the phase of the report and at Act third reading . 
why apply abstenir at the instead of introduce a another amendment ? 
transport officials we acclaimed said that the government has the intent of introduce them amendments appropriés if health Court Supreme décide of limiting Act discrétion of the minister . 
health Court Supreme should we enlighten very soon . 
if the government is still pressé of agir at what moment là , I me commits officially at réviser unabated measure legislative if strange and if incohérente when Act Court Supreme of the Canada apply arranged prononcée . 
i me abstiens and I attends Act decision to health Court Supreme ; I hope that the government agira with célérité yeas withdraw at the minister of health Howe unabated discrétion everything at fact anachronique and unfair . 
the Honourable Serge Joyal : 
honourable senators , the bill to Bill C - 4 , Act to implementation fell implementation of the Agreement Act Act Station spatiale international civile , me inquiète at the most haut standpoint . 
i am recognizing at the senator Grafstein of wheel porté unabated question at mon attention Robbie that I participais at the study of the bill deloi S - 10 at the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional . 
transport provisions prescribed at the article 11 the Government Bill deloi C - 4 suscitent of them interrogations Act the power to the minister of health Howe of autoriser the extradition of ressortissants Airports toward the foreign States where Act peine of death is susceptible of Welfare imposée . 
the article 11 the what Bill of Bill modifie the article 7 to the Code criminal by the adjonction of nouvelles provisions rose yeas effect of étendre the application of the Code criminal at Act station spatiale international . 
the nouveau paragraph ( 2.31 ) 
du Code criminal précise what who suit : 
he fell résulte that royal jurisdiction pénale of the Canada apply étend désormais at Act nouvelle station spatiale international . 
fell outre , she apply exerce fell cooperation with 14 other countries streets the framework of the agreement international régissant Act station spatiale . 
by conséquent , business 14 other States signataires adopteront of them provisions semblables streets their right pénal . 
the article 11 the Government Bill of Bill C - 4 raises specifically Act same question of fond that the paragraph 42 ( 2 ) the Government Bill of Bill C - 40 presented lors of health dernière session , at savoir the power discrétionnaire of the minister of health Howe of ordonner the extradition là where Act peine of death is applicable . 
là still , business persons extradées of the Canada not bénéficient of aucune protection against Act peine of death . 
commentator you you fell souviendrez , I ai énoncé them principles fondamentaux Subcommittee - jacents at ma Position Act Act question essential to health peine of death at the spring last , when the Senate has examined the bill to Bill C - 40 , health law Act the extradition . 
durant the debate Act Act third reading of what Bill of Bill , I ai supported a subamendment proposed by the senator Grafstein who aurait exigé that royal Minister of health Howe obtienne series promise of the state requérant understandings at the fact that royal peine of death not serait not infligée or that , if she the guardian , she never serait not implementation at exécution . 
health peine of death serait rather changée fell peine of prison at life exécutoire without possibility of libération conditionnelle . 
he is , according moi , totalement incorrect and contrary at Act provision of the article 7 to health Charter canadienne of them rights and freedoms of laisser Act life or health death of a Quebecer at Act discrétion of a minister of health crown . 
these issues importantes are currently the topic of the affair Rafay and Burns , who has been entendue unabated year at Act Court Supreme of the Canada . 
unabated affair , commentator you you fell souviendrez , has trait at Act decision to the Honourable Allan Rock , P , autorisant the extradition of two citizens Airports of 18 years toward a Crown of them States - U.S. where they are inculpés of murder and where they encourent Act peine of death . 
fell formulant dapper decision , Rand Rock not has not cherché at apply ensure that royal part poursuivante streets bearer state not requérrait not Act peine of death . 
health decision to laCour Supreme not has not yet been rendue , but them savants judges acclaimed ordonné that the affair authorized to nouveau entenduele 25 October 1999 . 
streets the témoignage that he has done the Tuesday 7 December 1999 appeared the committee of them Affairs Foreign , Rand Yvan Roy , lawyer General of health 110 of health policy fell matière of right pénal at the Department of health Howe , has explained that the power to a minister of health Howe of autoriser the extradition continuerait of Welfare a power discrétionnaire flavour and without entrave and that he not is not atténué by the bill to Bill C - 4 . 
Seneca what that has ditM. Roy : 
... the minister of health Howe , who is responsible for the application of health Act Act the extradition , perhaps refuser of prendre a décret of remise when Act conduct at the hook of laquelle til has presented Act request for extradition fact the objet of poursuites criminelles at the Canada intentées against unabated human . 
Koppel . Roy has also acknowledged that the judgment rendu streets the affair Burns and Rafay obligera can - perhaps the minister at exiger of them assurances before the autoriser the extradition streets of reassess case . 
Seneca what that he has said : 
dear the chairman , you savez that royal Court Supreme of the Canada is présentement saisie of health issue streets the framework of the affair Burns and Rafay . 
he remembered can very well that til devra invoquer a another item of unabated measure legislative , account tenu of what that royal Court Supreme of the Canada fingertips at say if health peine of death pouvait perhaps imposée streets the country abroad . 
the afternoon Act bill actuelle , series telle obligation not existe not , but confirms deviendra can - perhaps Act bill , the afternoon what that établira what judgment . 
honourable senators , étant rose these circumstances , and account tenu of them principles that I ai already , the spring last , exposés fell detail streets the countdown rendu of the Senate Act Act question of health peine of death , I cannot puis , fell blunt good conscience , voter fell favour of the article 11 the Government Bill of Bill C - 4 , who gives effect at the agreement regarding health juridiction pénale partagée Act Act Station spatiale international civile . 
by conséquent , I tiens at make savoir officially that I ai the intent of me abstenir of voter when Act motion of third reading of the bill to Bill C - 4 arranged implementation at them Senators . 
the Honourable Lucie pin : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that I me abstiendrai of voter Act the bill to Bill C - 4 , yeas them mêmes reasons that celles who acclaimed been data by foreign honourable senators Grafstein and Joyal . 
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk : 
honourable senators , I cannot me engagerai not streets unabated discussion soulevée by foreign senators Grafstein and Joyal . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I voudrais ask your indulgence . 
i remarque that he is 15 1:30 29 , and we awakened convenu of revert at what moment - ci at the notice of inquiry of the senator Gauthier afin that he puisse prendre Act parole during 15 minutes . 
i request therefore Act leave of revert at the notice of inquiry who is sciences at the name of the senator Gauthier and who pertains a report Act the récent Sommet of health Francophonie . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
is - what the agreement , honourable senators yeas permettre of mood the inquiry No. 1 ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Andreychuk : 
i remind at them honourable senators that the committee of them Affairs Foreign has received Act leave of sit now . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
i am désolé , Senator Andreychuk , but Act leave has been granted . 
the senator Andreychuk : 
i veux wheel of them instructions . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
Mrs. the senator invoque she the rules ? 
the Senate has authorized the committee of them Affairs Foreign at apply Camera at 3:15 1:30 30 today today . 
that regardless , I am prête at céder Act parole at the senator Gauthier . 
the Senate souhaite he that I particulars Act parole at the topic of bearer section of the Order of the day now or that I Act particulars more later yeas power assister at Act postponement of the committee , whose I am a member rose the right to vote ? 
i dois résoudre unabated énigme all levels mardis and mercredis . 
the senator Hays : 
honourable senators , I cannot am not course that the Senate puisse help the senator Andreychuk . 
what is his choice . 
she is the blunt évidence free of assister at Act postponement of the committee puisque the Senate has authorized the committee at sit fell same time that wouldn . 
i vais make fell sorte that Mrs. the senator Andreychuk authorized avisée when we reprendrons the debate Act the bill to Bill C - 4 , authorized streets 15 minutes approximately , afin that she puisse revert yeas participate at the debate if tel is his souhait . 
the senator Andreychuk : 
i vais ask at a result condolences colleagues on ask the adjournment of the debate fell mon name if I cannot am not here . 
the senator Hays : 
commentator we espérons débattre the bill to Bill C - 4 today today , I mover at the senator Andreychuk of prendre Act parole today today . 
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier : 
honourable senators , I am everything at fact disposé at prendre Act parole after the senator Andreychuk , if she is Act dernière human at prendre Act parole Act bearer section of the Order of the day . 
the senator Andreychuk : 
i vais ask the adjournment fell mon name and prendre Act parole tomorrow . 
the senator Hays : 
i voudrais that we the fassions today today . 
the senator Andreychuk : 
honourable senators , I cannot avais not the intent of heed a term speech Act unabated question . 
we awakened amplement discussed the Day peine Capital at the moment of the study of health Act Act the extradition . 
i ai fact clearly connaître mon opinion at what moment - là , and I cannot ai not changed the notice . 
i ai convenu that he guardian urgent of participate at the process of implementation fell implementation of the agreement Act Act station spatiale . 
fell consequential , I estimated that he not is not streets the interest public and that what not is not series good practice Parliamentary that the wait Act decision to health Court Supreme . 
if health Court Supreme exige of other measures legislatures , til apply fell occupera fell time and instead . 
yeas the hour , health law is claire . 
i the répète , health issue has been débattue at the moment of the study of health Act Act the extradition . 
i cannot ai not changed the idea at bearer regard . 
i veux thank the Department of health Howe and the committee yeas their excellent work relatively at the article 11 the Government Bill deloi C - 4 . 
he rereads Partnerships a problem with Act version anglaise and I believe understand that royal version Speaking apply bed perfectly well . 
we adoptons series bill pénale canadienne and the appliquons at Act station spatiale . 
bye them termes of health definition of " crew member of has Partner State " , business members of the crew are visés by our laws yeas a acte or series omission who " is committed til , gold in relationship to , has flight element provided by Canada gold damages has Canadian flight element " . 
he not there has aucune definition of " Canadian flight element " streets the bill to Bill and the Department of health Howe has recognized that same if til définissait the expression " flight element " , " has flight element provided by Canada " no is not necessarily Act same something that a " Canadian flight element " . 
even if til seems couper them hair fell four yeas some , ceux who submariners perhaps visés by series bill pénale not partageront not what standpoint of standpoint . 
we devons perhaps very clairs . 
blunt human accusée of series offence at them termes of unabated bill deserves the foreign provisions précises . 
i ai been heureuse that the committee particulars condolences concerns fell advisement . 
the Department has précisé that streets the next bill to Bill of together , til paving apporter of them éclaircissements and insérer series definition précise yeas that aucune human comparaissant appeared our courts not authorized placée streets the uncertainty . 
i thank the committee of dictatorship . 
Robbie that we ourselves aventurons streets the space and créons a right pénal extraterritorial , he is extremely important that we soyons precise . 
i ai been heureuse that the government and the Department of health Howe acceptent mon standpoint of standpoint . 
i vais souscrire at unabated measure legislative . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , yeas veiller at what that the countdown rendu authorized exact , the Senate Partnerships rose Act leave of hear the senator Gauthier . 
unabated question has been implementation at the study . 
is - what that a another hon. Senator souhaite intervene ? 
transport travaux of the Senate 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , when the senator Andreychuk has asked Act parole , the senator Gauthier has accepted the intervene after she yeas respond at his souhait of assister at series meeting of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign . 
i believe understand that til apply entend yeas that the senator Gauthier parle now the Government inquiry numéro 1 inscrite fell his name at the Order of the day . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , he is everything at fact clear that we ourselves impotent entendus yeas interrupt them deliberations Act the bill to Bill who is at the hour actuelle at the phase of health third reading yeas hear the senator Gauthier Act his inquiry . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave is - she granted to mood at them interpellations ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the Sommet of health Francophonie 
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate 
leave rose been granted to mood at the inquiry numéro 1 : 
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier , rose rose notice the Wednesday 13 October 1999 : 
that he attirera the attention of the Senate Act the récent Sommet of health Francophonie who faces is tenu at Moncton at the month of September last . 
the Sommet of health Francophonie who has strokes instead at Moncton , at the Brunswick - Brunswick , at the beginning of the month of September comportait a Order of the day yeas the least chargé . 
unfortunately , business feux of health rampe apply are quickly détournés of them travaux that devaient aborder them différents chefs of States gathered yeas apply braquer Act Act légalité or health legitimacy of health presence of certaines persons at the Sommet . 
commentator you the savez , I ai strokes the honour to présider lors of them two dernières years , the Assembly of them parliamentarians of health Francophonie . 
i traiterai therefore something little streets ma présente intervention of the role of the APF auprès of the sommet , yeas ensuite aborder the épineuse question of health legitimacy and the Day ability to representation of a Opposition of State who serait soupçonné of wheel enfreint some rights that we considérons at the Canada commentator fondamentaux and élémentaires streets blunt society free and democratic . 
the Assembly Parliamentary of health Francophonie , commentator you the savez , constitue a link précieux between them instances of health Francophonie and Oceans populations francophones , puisque the assemblée dispose of 47 sections at the Breast of them Parlements , U.S. and communaut francophones and 12 sections associées . 
outre a important work of reflection and the cooperation Inter , she participe at Act implementation fell place and at the renforcement of them institutions démocratiques and at them missions of observation of election . 
lors of the Sommet of Maurice , at the month of October 1993 , after wheel réaffirmé Act place imminente of the institution Parliamentary at the c9ur of health democracy représentative and the Government state of right to the sommet , til has considéré that the APF , Gotcha organization Parliamentary of health Francophonie , constitue the link democratic between them governments and Oceans Peoples of health Francophonie . 
fell consequential , til has decided to reconnaître the APF commentator the Assembly consultative of health Francophonie , what that has confirmed Act Charter of health Francophonie , adoptée at Hanoi fell November 1997 , who créait , by elsewhere , the station of Secretary General of health Francophonie , occupé parM. Boutros Boutros - Ghali , ex - Secretary General of the ONU . 
yeas apply allegiances fell conformité with Act Charter , the assemblée has decided , lors of dapper session ordinaire of Abidjan , fell July 1998 , the adopt the name of Assembly Parliamentary of health Francophonie . 
bye title of Assembly consultative of the Sommet , the Assembly Parliamentary of health Francophonie has participated at the Sommet of Moncton at the surveillance duquel his nouveau chairman , Rand Nicolas Amougou Noma , Prime vice - chairman of the Assembly générale of the Cameroun , has done series intervention appeared them chefs of State and the government . 
bye the surveillance of his intervention , Rand Nicola Amougou Noma has notamment réaffirmé the attachement of the APF at Act democracy Parliamentary , at the state of right analyzed that his Opposition referred blunt transmission of the power by Act strength of them weapons . 
he has reminded them prises of position of the APF against foreign children soldiers and fell favour of health implementation fell place rapide of health future cour pénale international . 
the Assembly of them parliamentarians of health Francophonie supports Act decision prise lors of the sommet of create a observatoire of health democracy , that she has always appelé of all ses vows and auquel she entend participate fell apportant the expertise of them parliamentarians . 
the APF apply réjouit also the Government accueil favorable réservé at his bill to creation of a parlement of them young francophones , at Act implementation fell place duquel she souhaite perhaps étroitement associée . 
she has noté with much of interest them statements of the Sommet regarding health diversity linguistic fell favour of laquelle she apply is engagée vigoureusement . 
fell revanche , she never can that apply interroger Act the accroissement continu since several years of the number of members of health Francophonie , whose what not is not Act vocation of devenir series seconde Organization of them Nations Nations not more than a second Commonwealth . 
bye the future , the nouvelles adhésions emigrate perhaps conditionnées by the foreign commitments regarding the usage of the French streets the framework of them relations internationales and the Government post . 
finally , the APF remind that she never account streets ses rangs that foreign legislatures parliamentarians élues streets the strict respect to them standards Constitutional of their countries and that she has suspendu ceux of ses members who specialist ceased of adhere what principle . 
she never fell has therefore that most of habileté yeas dénoncer Act campaign who voudrait accuser Act Francophonie of complaisance particulière at the hook of them regimes dictatoriaux . 
she exprime dapper conviction of health necessity of series Action permanente fell favour of health democracy at the quotidien , the Government type of celle that she dictatorship currently , the foreign missions of observation of election , health training of them élus , business forums , business meetings régulières yeas discuss how better agir commentator Parliamentary streets a country democratic . 
bye what topic , business media acclaimed fact grandfather état of health presence of a representative of the Rwanda and the Government Congo . 
analyzed , at mon sense , they acclaimed porté ombrage at them travaux of the sommet and entaché bearer fiscal if crucial at Act vitality of health Francophonie international . 
i ai commitments Act freedom of écrire at the Prime Minister Jean Chr at what sujetle 24 August last . 
streets dapper response to the 31 August , the Prime Minister me fact share of health volonté of the Canada , and I quote : 
[ ... ] of adhere his obligation at the place to health Francophonie , authorized permettre at them representatives of all levels country members of apply Camera at the Canada yeas ceVIIe Sommet . 
however , confirms not signifie aucunement that we cautionnons them abuses commises by some governments or individus who palatable there participate . 
i comprends Act Position of the Prime Minister , but I believe that he is grandfather time to redéfinir the éligibilité of some leaders at participate at the foreign rencontres of envergure international . 
the elsewhere , at what topic , the minister of them Foreign Foreign of the Canada , the Honourable Lloyd Axworthy , reconnaissait that the Canada guardian or serait fell favour of a right to ingérence humanitaire . 
til consacre therefore the principle of health préséance of health safety humaine Act blunt another activité , incluant same the development of the trade . 
i me rallie at series telle Position . 
she rejoint , at mon sense , the opinion that I exprimais at the Prime Minister , at savoir that foreign rights of the man repositories wheel préséance Act bon number of coutumes and the practices fell matière of relations internationales . 
i believe personally that he arranged soon possible for impose commentator condition sine qua non at series representation international légitime the respect to them rights humans yeas them country désirant participate at series conference international . 
he remembered agirait of a redoutable tool yeas montrer Act voie at some countries récalcitrants , at the same title that foreign embargos trading and health rupture of them links diplomatiques . 
i hope , honourable senators , that til donnera subsequently at unabated recommendation faisant that foreign States who voudront participate at them organizations internationales repositories dorénavant adhere them rights humans fell everything time . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Kinsella , the debate is adjourned . ) 
health law of implementation fell implementation of the Agreement Act Act Station spatiale international civile 
third reading 
leave rose been granted to revert at the article 1 to them Affairs - Government government : 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Stollery , Refer at Act third reading of the bill to Bill C - 4 , Act Convey implementation fell implementation of the Agreement conclu between the government ' s Canada , business governments of States members of the Agency spatiale European , the government ' s Japan , the government ' health Federation of Russia and the government ' Affairs States - U.S. of America Act Act cooperation relative at Act Station spatiale international civile and apportant of them changes connexes at the other Acts . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , there has he a another hon. Senator who widow intervene streets the debate Act Act motion Convey third reading of the bill to Bill C - 4 ? 
the Honourable Peter A . Stollery : 
honourable senators ... 
his Honour the Speaker : 
if the Honourable Senator prend Act parole now , his speech mettra end at the debate fell third reading . 
the senator Stollery : 
honourable senators , business Canadians are Incidence them more grands users of technology spatiale and they vivent streets a result them country them more branchés at the world . 
confirms apply explique by series volonté inébranlable of élargir them opportunities for our industry , the our researchers , the our astronautes and , by - dessus everything , the foreign generations futures of Canadians . 
the bill to Bill C - 4 VI essentially at permettre at the Canada ' saisir toutes them opportunities that offers Act Station spatiale international . 
the bill to Bill is the instrument of ratification of our contribution at unabated remarkable congruent spatiale , but he not is that a petit not yeas the Canada streets a bill which represents a not to géant yeas the humanity . 
he not is that normal that a bill to series telle scope and the genus telle grandeur exige that the snakes définisse a system of management very complex . 
transport parties at the entente , at savoir the Canada , business States - U.S. , health Russia , the Japan and 11 country européens , laughed sparked of établir a framework of collaboration international fell standpoint of health conception detailed , the Government development , the Government exploitation and the Government utilisation , at the foreign purposes pacifiques , the genus Station spatiale international civile habitée fell permanence . 
the agreement introduces of them mechanisms and the foreign arrangements visant at apply ensure that these objectives are refreshed . 
juridiquement parlant , the bill to Bill C - 4 met at exécution them commitments that we awakened commitments fell vertu of the protocole of entente intergouvernemental fell harmonisant Act législation canadienne with bearer agreed . 
fact more important , the bill to Bill C - 4 étend the application of the Code criminal of the Canada at them Canadians at bord of health station spatiale analyzed that , streets certaines circumstances , at them ressortissants étrangers . 
the principle is the same that streets them other applications extraterritoriales of the Code criminal of the Canada , by example Act them plateformes of forage fell sea . 
fell outre , the bill to Bill C - 4 allows the us ensure that the government Heritage dispose of them information essentiels yeas him permettre of exécuter ses obligations at the subheading of the Agreement Act Act station spatiale and that foreign information fournis are utilisés exclusively at unabated end . 
i voudrais thank condolences colleagues , fell particular , business members of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign yeas the crux interest that they acclaimed manifesté at the hook of what Bill of Bill and the Day SSI . 
fell activist that President of the committee , I ai been encouragé of see the attention that portaient them members at unabated importante phase of the history of the Canada streets the space . 
durant them hearings on the committee , some points acclaimed been Arising and débattus , notamment of them questions relatives at them codifies of conduct , at Act juridiction and at the application extraterritoriale . 
i am pleased to say that thanks at Act diligence and at the effectiveness of them senators , we ourselves impotent still rapprochés of the adoption of what Bill of Bill historic . 
dapper ratification ouvrira Act voie at the Canada and , ultimement , at all levels partners participant at the program of health station spatiale , fell what who pertains the exploitation and the utilisation of the most grandfather laboratory spatial of the world occupé fell permanence , and donnera birth at series nouvelle ère of exploration spatiale . 
bye the aube of the nouveau century , the Canada is a leader Whalers streets the field of health technology spatiale , loan at tirer party to them débouchés that offrira the economy axée Act the savoir who is celle of the future . 
transport Canadians éprouveront series grande pride at observer , " fell direct the Government space " , business astronautes Airports participant at bearer événement marquant of the history of the humanity . 
he not done nil doubt that , fell what early of nouveau millennium , we ourselves préparons also at repousser them frontières of our univers , at réaliser of importantes découvertes scientific , and at make the foreign progress technological novateurs . 
we cannot pouvons same not conceive them découvertes them more importantes susceptibles of Welfare faites streets them 25 at 50 prochaines years . 
imaginons how , he rereads has cent years , étaient envisagés them progress scientific accomplis since . 
transport théories révolutionnaires Act Act matière , the Evolution and health thermodynamique of them years 1800 acclaimed owed paraître of a progress ahurissant . 
pourtant , what not are not them sceptiques who manquent , whose the imagination not parvient not at suivre the Evolution rapide of health science and the Day technology . 
that he me authorized licences of remind at what topic few anecdotes historiques amusantes . 
Charles H . Duell , director of the Bureau of them brevets at them States - U.S. , Partnerships déclaré fell 1899 that " everything what who guardian at inventer the Partnerships already been " . 
fell 1943 , Thomas Watson , President of IBM , aurait déclaré " he existe a market Whalers yeas five computers everything at the most " . 
he not is not surprising that , streets a numéro of 1949 of health magazine Popular Mechanics , til ait prédit that " telecommunications computers of the future palatable not peser that series tonne and demie " . 
by elsewhere , series particulars of service Internal of health Western Union , congruent américaine of telecommunications , Marsden that " justice technology of the telephone laisse too at désirer yeas perhaps seriously envisagée commentator moyen of communication " . 
Bell aurait - he avoided apply conceive Act way whose business lines téléphoniques acclaimed transformé our society and whose thin are now utilisées yeas effectuer of them transmissions with images vidéos at the foreign destinataires multiples ? 
according to them estimations , between 270 and 350 satellites of télécommunication uncovered lancées of here 2007 fell standpoint of appuyer the infrastructure World of the information fell pleine growth whose business revenues doubleront of here the 2000 2005 . 
l' " apparatus électrique of transmission of health Senators " the Bell has opened Act voie at the autoroute of the information that we connaissons today today . 
who aurait avoided apply conceive that the industry électronique fell direct , also appelée trade électronique , who never existait not at Act end of 1993 disorderly before Act end of 1995 series growth which him permettrait of revêtir Act same importance that the acier and the automobile at their époque . 
health collectivité medical , thanks at them travaux menés streets them domaines of the space , the foreign Science and the Day technology , run emploie at éliminer completely certaines diseases and at find the foreign solutions at certaines other . 
our collectivité scientifique , at the Breast of laquelle them scientific Airports of the space are them chefs of file , contributes at our compréhension of the univers and the foreign effects of the réchauffement global of the atmosphère . 
our collectivité industrielle , thanks at the industry spatiale canadienne , produced the foreign revenues annuelles supérieures at 1.4 1.1 of $ , and crée of them jobs , the Day richesse and the Government expertise yeas a market Whalers without cesse croissant . 
the courage to prendre of them risks and health perseverance Act Act voie of the success Subcommittee - tendent each découverte and each Innovation . 
fell dépit of them échecs , each jalon doit perhaps perçu commentator faisant part of the need intrinsèque of the humanity the explorer and the understanding the inconnu . 
bye the surveillance of them 50 prochaines years , he not existe aucune way of savoir damned petite pierre retournée , even apply he remembered notional of series pierre Act Act surface of health planet Mars , mènera at a Insignia univers of them Science . 
Alexander Graham Bell has already déclaré what who suit : 
when series door apply ferme , series another apply ouvre ; however , he we arrive if often of fixer during long and at regret Act door close that we cannot voyons not them other doors who faces ouvrent appeared we . 
health Station spatiale international civile not is that series of them doors who faces ouvrent at the Canada . 
she fact of the Canada a result them summarizing partners streets the aventure spatiale Act more audacieuse never congruent streets the history , everything fell permettant that the snakes circulation Appeal at the foreign scientific , the foreign astronautes , at them experiences and at Act technology of the Canada . 
the investment at term term the most remarkable streets these partnerships is Act creation of débouchés who amènent our young at reconnaître that they arresting eux also play a role streets them découvertes of the nouveau millennium and at vouloir there participate . 
what is therefore with much of pride that I invite them honourable senators at appuyer what jalon yeas the whole of them Canadians and the Government humanity streets them domaines of the exploration spatiale and the Government Innovation technologique . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
plaît - he at them honourable senators ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée and the bill to Bill , read series third once , is passed . ) 
bill to Bill of 1999 yeas Act implementation fell 9uvre of conventions fiscales 
third reading - Adjourned of the debate 
perhaps honourable senators , I am heureuse of prendre Act parole today today at the phase of health third reading of the bill to Bill S - 3 , Act to 1999 yeas Act implementation fell 9uvre of conventions fiscales . 
the bill to Bill modifie Act convention fiscale between the Canada and the Japan , door Act implementation fell implementation of nouvelles conventions with the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , health Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzbékistan and health Jordanie , and remplace Act convention fell vigueur with the Luxembourg . 
transport conventions visées by the bill to Bill revêtent series importance particulière yeas them businesses and Oceans citizens of the Canada who mènent of them activities streets these countries and there investissent . 
permettez - moi of you exposer the context streets lequel apply sciences the bill to Bill No. 
transport conventions fiscales acclaimed two grands objectives : avoid Act double Imposition and prévenir the evasion fell matière of tax Act the Income . 
you flavour therefore that foreign conventions fiscales acclaimed series incidence sensible Act two - Provincial priorities of the state , authorized , the genus share , health promotion of the trade and the foreign investment , authorized , the another share , the equity fiscale . 
transport conventions fiscales apply rapportent directly at the trade international of biens and the services , and thin influent of way tangible Act the economy intérieure . 
tangibly - he remind that royal value of them exports of the Canada represents at the hour actuelle more of 40p. cent of the GDP annual ? 
fell outre , business conventions fiscales contribuent at the equity of the regime fiscal fell garantissant that foreign Canadians not are not victims of series double Imposition , situation which may surgir when a taxpayer réside streets a country , but gagne a income streets a another country . 
bye défaut of conventions fiscales , the one and the another country palatable impose what income . 
Incidence them solutions possibles at what problem , the country of residence may exonérer what income of tax or accorder a credit fell vertu of series convention fiscale at the subheading of the tax payé at the country where the Income has been gagné . 
transport country concernés arresting also convenir of reduce the rate of retenue at them purposes of tax . 
fell effect , business country prévoient fell General of them retenues at the subheading of the tax Act the Income versé at them non - résidents . 
fell the absence of convention fiscale or the genus another form of exonération prévue by Act bill , the rate of retenue appliqué by the Canada Act the Income of them non - résidents is the 25p. cent . 
transport conventions fiscales visées by the bill to Bill S - 3 prévoient of them rate of retenue réduits notamment at the hook of them dividends , interests and royalties yeas them Canadians menant of them activities streets them country fell question . 
laissez - moi you give few Particulars . 
the rate maximum of retenue of tax Act them dividends reçus by the foreign companies détenant at the least 10p. cent of them rights of vote of health society versant them dividends arranged of 5p. cent at them termes of them conventions with the Luxembourg , the Lebanon and the Ouzbékistan , and the 10p. cent at them termes of health convention with Act Bulgaria and health Jordanie . 
fell vertu of our convention with the Portugal , series congruent doit détenir at the least 25p. cent of them rights of vote of series society yeas perhaps assujettie at the rate of retenue maximum of 10p. cent Act them dividends . 
transport conventions with the Algeria and the Kirghizistan prévoient a rate of retenu maximum of 15p. cent Act all levels dividends . 
streets the case of them interests , the rate of retenue minimum is de10p. cent pursuant at them conventions with Act Bulgaria , the Luxembourg , health Jordanie , the Ouzbékistan , the Lebanon and the Portugal , and the 15p. cent fell application of them conventions with the Algeria and the Kirghizistan . 
series exonération is prévue streets some cases referred the hook of them interests , by example ceux that rapportent some types of emprunt of the state . 
series retenue maximale of 10p. cent at the subheading of the tax arranged appliquée Act them royalties at them termes of our conventions with Act Bulgaria , the Luxembourg , health Jordanie , the Ouzbékistan , the Kirghizistan and the Portugal . 
the rate maximal prévu by Act convention with the Algeria , always at the hook of them royalties , arranged of 15p. cent . 
Également , certaines conventions comportent series provision of exonération or appliquent a rate maximum of retenue de5p. cent Act them royalties applicables at them rights of author , at them logiciels and at them brevets and savoir - make . 
the protocole conclu with the Japan door Act reduction of them retenues applicables at them dividends interentreprises , whose the rate maximum is porté at 5p. cent and exonère them companies Forces who exploitent of them ships or the foreign aéronefs streets the field of the transportation international of them taxes of them businesses appliqués at the échelle locale at the Japan . 
transport provinces Forces accordent already unabated exonération of courtesy at them businesses japonaises who exercent of telles activities at the Canada . 
Étant rose that royal plupart of them conventions signées by the Canada , there including celles with the Ouzbékistan , health Bulgaria , the Algeria and the Kirghizistan , laughed been négociées before the announcement of these rules , series provision has been incorporée at them rules envisagées Act Act migration of them taxpayers afin that the Canada puisse accorder unilatéralement a credit yeas tax abroad at them émigrants and what , until fell 2007 . 
unabated démarche évite everything risk of double Imposition of them gains réalisés before the departure of them émigrants , the here at what that foreign conventions fell question aient been renégociées of manner at perhaps conformes at them nouvelles rules . 
health same provision apply applies streets the case of the Japan , who has asked that unabated question authorized étudiée lors of them prochaines negotiations . 
i query finally respond at them concerns exprimées by few senators senators understandings at Act convention of double Imposition with the Ouzbékistan at cause of them practices of what country fell matière of Rights of health human . 
these values trouvent their incarnation streets our institutions and practices démocratiques , streets them commissions fédérales and Provincial of them rights of health human , streets Act Charter of them rights and freedoms , and streets our traditions of peace , the Order and the bon government . 
the approach to the Canada fell matière of Rights of health human since 1986 , without regard at them changes to government , is the commitment and the dialogue . 
the Canada is the notice that the établissement of a dialogue at several niveaux with them country which we causent of them concerns fell matière of Rights of health human is a moyen effective of promote Act transparency , the respect to them rights of health human and the adhésion at Act rule of right . 
our policy apply inspire before everything of the pragmatisme , a pragmatisme encadré by the foreign principles , at the moyen duquel we ourselves efforçons of define them measures concrete who déboucheront Act a change positif and réel streets the country fell cause . 
transport measures that we prenons varient forcément according the country , according the degree of volonté of discuss with the Canada ' questions touchant them rights of health human , health scope of our influence Act what country or Act dapper region , the number and health strength of them ONG who there oeuvrent fell favour of them rights of health human , and fell function of everyone a éventail of other factors . 
streets the case of the Ouzbékistan , that what authorized at the level bilatéral or multilateral , the Canada commits what country at entreprendre of them reforms Economic and démocratiques and at better adhere them rights of health human . 
bye the level multilateral , the Ouzbékistan has accédé fell 1994 and 1995 at six treaties importants of them Nations Nations Act them rights of health human , what who allows at the Canada and at them other States members of them Nations Nations of Auditing if the Ouzbékistan satisfait at ses obligations at them termes of these treaties . 
what country has , fell outre , signed the Acte final of Helsinki , the sorte that he is now member of the Organization yeas Act security and health cooperation fell Europe . 
the Canada supports them programs of monitoring and the democratization of the OSCE streets what country . 
what is at what title that the CIDA has parrainé Act participation of representatives of organizations ouzbékes of advocacy of them rights of health human at series grande conference of the OSCE Act unabated question , tenue at Varsovie fell 1998 . 
by elsewhere , the Agency canadienne of developing international accorde his appui at a certain number of bills ouzbékes streets the field of them rights of health human , notamment Act preparedness and health distribution of series brochure Act Act Declaration Universal of them rights of the man by the Centre attain of them rights of health human of Ouzbékistan . 
by subsequently of the démentèlement of the Union Soviet , he has owed negotiate the nouveaux agreements with them States , tel the Ouzbékistan , who never Cutbacks not part of them States successeurs liés by Act convention of double Imposition conclue with the ex - Union Soviet . 
the Canada has sparked of them negotiations fell 1995 , fell reason for the interest that manifestent them businesses Forces yeas what market , notamment yeas the sector of them resources Natural . 
the Ouzbékistan is a result them more grands country producers of gold at the world . 
bye what day , well that foreign échanges of the Canada with the Ouzbékistan apply avèrent modest , business businesses Forces continuent of apply intéresser at the foreign sectors reassess that the exploitation minière , business telecommunications and , everything dernièrement , the education , fell particular Act creation of schools of Studies commerciales fell Ouzbékistan and health reform of the system of education . 
health negotiating the genus convention of double Imposition with the Ouzbékistan is conforme at Act volonté of the Canada ' facilitate the passage of series economy dirigée at series economy of market and the promote the development democratic streets them nouveaux States independent of the ex - Union Soviet . 
the foreign instruments legal commentator Act convention contribuent at favoriser Act transparency , health prévisibilité and the respect to health primauté of the right streets our relations Economic bilatérales . 
honourable senators , the Canada continuera of apply engager streets a dialogue with the Ouzbékistan of way at encourage what country at improve ses practices fell matière of developing democratic , the respect to them rights of health human and the reform economic . 
however , he is difficult to apply implanter Act them markets of the ex - Union Soviet and confirms nécessite series preparedness of attest haleine . 
transport instruments legal who aident at the make , telle Act convention of double Imposition , consistent fell of them agreements - cadres who guarding them intérets of them Canadians and the foreign companies Forces . 
when these dernières choisissent of étendre their activity at the foreign markets difficiles commentator gerrymandering of the Ouzbékistan , these instruments acclaimed yeas advantage of éclaircir them rules and the improve Act prévisibilité . 
before the finishing , I aborderai two other points . 
sachez of thanking , honourable senators , that when business provisions of series convention fiscale diffèrent of celles contenues streets Act Act to the tax Act the Income , health convention fiscale prime of way at garantir that foreign objectives that I ai mentionnés more earlier soient atteints . 
honourable senators , the Elimination of health double Imposition Act the Mifflin Plan them operations commerciales touchant them country visés by what Bill of Bill not can that perhaps at the advantage of them commerçants and the foreign investors Airports who there Cutbacks affair , and favoriser of the same coup of them relations internationales harmonieuses and the foreign échanges trading fructueux . 
bye the hour actuelle , the Canada has conclu of them conventions fiscales with 67 country . 
what figure montera at 74 series once that foreign conventions visées by what Bill of Bill entreront fell vigueur , what who paving streets the meaning of the objective of the Canada ' étendre his network of conventions fiscales internationales . 
honourable senators , I you asking therefore instamment of adopt quickly what Bill of Bill No. 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , the senator aurait aimé , she also , run prononcer Act what Bill of Bill , but she has owed apply tribute at Act meeting of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs Foreign . 
i move : adjournment of the debate fell his name , and I am that she fell touchera a word tomorrow . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , commentator Act end of the year approach at not to géants , pourrais - I ask at the senator Kinsella if the other members of the Opposition souhaitent prendre Act parole Act the article fell more of the senator Andreychuk ? 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
i believe that we analyzed them two seuls senators who souhaitent prendre Act parole . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Kinsella , at the name of the senator Andreychuk , the debate is adjourned . ) 
the speech of the trône 
motion of Adopted of the adresse fell response 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Kroft , seconded by the Honourable Senator Furey , Refer at the adoption of series Adresse at His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale fell response at the speech that Elle has prononcé lors of the opening of health second session of health trente - sixth législature . - ( 
8e day to health resuming the Government debate ) . 
the Honourable Marjory LeBreton : 
honourable senators , I am heureuse of participate at the debate Act the speech of the Trône , even if I sharing the notice of health plupart of them observers and commentateurs , at savoir that the speech of the Trône is dépourvu of vision and not we apprend not grandfather - something Act them intentions of the government . 
i cannot ai that series something at say at what topic : 
confirms me amène at the heart of mon speech : Act management economic , without Opposition aucune , pratiquée by the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister fell attente . 
Seneca how the cabinet of the Prime Minister résume the speech of the Trône : 
l' ère of health growth effrénée of them deficits and the Day debt Public is derrière we - campus of bon . 
we awakened presented the foreign Budgets équilibrés yeas two exercises financiers consécutifs - what who never apply guardian not seen since 1951 - 1952 . 
the ratio of health debt at the GDP diminue constamment . 
commentator they not are not contestés , business faiseurs of image and the propaganda of the government are always parvenus apparemment at make croire at them Canadians that the government precedent guardian responsible for unabated situation . 
they acclaimed déformé them facts . 
i am well consciente , honourable senators , that foreign seuls mots who puissent describe unabated tactique petitioners considérés antiparlementaires . 
the government has presented Subcommittee a faux day toutes them initiatives of the former government Progressive - Conservative of Brian Mulroney : the free - Exchange , health GST , health privatization and health déréglementation , the agrandissement of the airport Pearson , and the achat of helicopters , yeas not mention that celles - là . 
commentator he has passed systematically toutes these policies that he Partnerships dénoncées , why the laisse til prétendre that he has " inherited of a gâchis " , yeas employer them paroles of the Prime Minister ? 
quels are them facts ? 
honourable senators , at the fall of 1993 , the deficit apply élevait at 37,5 billion to $ . 
transport Liberals are arrivés at the power fell November 1993 , and apply are Robbie empressés of add toutes them Estimates imaginables at what figure yeas the augmenter the most possible before Act end of the fiscal 1993 - 1994 , who faces is terminé fell March 1994 . Ils acclaimed strokes five months yeas accomplir their work . 
they lançaient the figure spéculatif of 44 at 46 billion to $ little after their arrival at the power , espérant that he resterait ancré streets the spirit of health population , what who faces is produced , unfortunately . 
after well - Provincial efforts , they acclaimed succeeded at make grimper the figure of the deficit at 42 billion to $ . 
their but guardian clear : achieve a figure supérieur at gerrymandering of 38 billion to $ , authorized the deficit which existait when the government Progressive Conservative has been formé fell 1984 . 
how apply there are - they commitments ? 
they acclaimed added at them registres of them Estimates which étaient fell fact prescribed yeas them years at venir . 
fell fact , honourable senators , three - Provincial amounts susmentionnés not acclaimed not been payés au31 March 1993 , even apply they specialist been inscrits at them registres yeas the fiscal 1993 - 1994 . 
the Auditor General has denounced unabated practice , but the government apply fell moquait . 
transport Liberals Partnerships need to series certaine donnée yeas their program policy . 
they étaient disposés at accept Act critique négative of them media during a day or two yeas réaliser their program policy . 
why not the auraient - they not done ? 
they not étaient confrontés at aucune Opposition referred the Parliament and , at the époque , they bénéficiaient of the appui of media accommodants , voire often serviles . 
transport parties to Opposition , the Bloc and the Party Reform , voulaient davantage destroy the Party Progressive - Conservative that exiger of them comptes of the government . 
the Party Liberal has therefore perpétué a mythe whose he has done series reality and whose business members continuent still the évoquer , commentator them phoques savants that they are . 
commentator til connaît their false représentations streets all levels other domaines , he is surprising that til not them ait not 3.25 fell question at bearer regard also . 
yeas inventer of them stories , they are very forts . 
i guess that , yeas a Liberal , what is wonderful . 
confirms them sert yeas perpétuer what mythe . 
puisque them Liberals or ceux who Cutbacks their apologie not acclaimed never tenu much at the principle of the equity - everything is beau fell love , at Act War and fell policy , said - til - entirety confirms commentator series triste reality which , authorized said fell passant , not done that alimenter Act triste opinion that has Act population of health policy and the foreign politicians . 
regardons the affair Subcommittee a another angle , honourable senators , authorized fell faisant ressortir them torts at redresser , and espérons that confirms aidera at make understand Act situation at all levels observers of health scène policy . 
what is richly what that I dissenting make : redresser them facts . 
fell 1984 , health situation whose héritait the nouveau government Progressive - Conservative guardian désastreuse . 
the Opposition Liberal of the Ontario , David Peterson , Partnerships déclaré at the époque : " Brian Mulroney hérite of a épouvantable gâchis . " 
the vice - Prime Minister and Secretary - State at them Foreign extérieures sortant , Jean Chr , Partnerships déclaré , with series franchise inhabituelle that he not has never manifestée since : " We laissons the Custody - manger vacuum . " 
fell October last , Michael Bliss , streets series chronique intitulée : " Trudeau at 80 years - a piètre héritage " , has written what who suit : 
the failure to the government Trudeau at the hook of health policy economic guardian if flavour that same levels ruines acclaimed disparu . 
who , at share them archéologues of the history , run souvient of the Agency of sober of the investment abroad , the foreign modalités of the Program énergétique attain and the foreign contrôles of them salaires and the foreign price ? 
who faces fell soucie ? 
he has poursuivi of health way suivante : 
even when Pierre Trudeau guardian at the power , the failure to them tentatives of them Liberals yeas that the economy canadienne authorized dirigée by the state guardian became manifeste . 
transport notions of planning , the collectivisme and the progress by the étatisation Act the model of them socialistes apply are effondrées at the Canada and streets the world entier , everything commentator the socialisme him ? same . 
everyone what who restait of the economy libérale of them years Trudeau , what guardian series terrible montagne of debts and a regime of Tolls oppressif . 
the government Chr has unsuccessfully of apply détourner totalement of bearer aspect of the héritage deM. Trudeau . 
honourable senators , the fact is that the intervention of the government streets the economy and streets our vies guardian at his apogée . 
transport regulations édictés by the government and Oceans chinoiseries administratives étaient at the Order of the day , and Oceans Estimates Change atteignaient of them niveaux records . 
we avions series inflation at two figures and the foreign policies débilitantes telles that the PEN and the AEIE . 
the Auditor General of the époque has signalé with justesse that the government ' s Canada and the Parliament specialist " lost the control of them finances translated " . 
transport Estimates yeas them programs specialist augmenté of more of 14p. cent by 2000 during 15 years . 
the deficit federal guardian past the close to zéro at 38 billion to $ , and health debt fédérale Partnerships augmenté of more of 1000p. cent , certaines of them augmentations them more importantes étant observées at the époque where Jean Chr guardian Minister of them Finance . 
fell 1984 , fell activist that nouveau government , we awakened strokes Act lourde task of changer them things and Oceans attitudes . 
we étions déterminés at us atteler at Act task . 
we croyions that we devions confirms at them Canadians who we specialist élus . 
commentator he is said streets series study universitaire : 
transport consequences at term term [ ... ] 
des political Economic of Trudeau , 
[ ... ] - Government inflation galopante , the dollar fell chute free , the foreign rate of interest records and a unemployment fell hausse - posaient of sérieux problems at the Prime Minister Mulroney and he has fallu long yeas there remédier . 
he not done nil doubt that he fallait that the Canada renverse Act steamship and procède at the foreign reforms profondes . 
quels acclaimed been them results ? 
if til excludes the service of health debt , he not there Partnerships more of deficit gouvernemental fell 1990 . 
that fell is - he ' s deficit whose we entendons constamment parler at the another place and streets Act population ? 
health truth , what is that , commentator everything observer of health scène financière the knows , health Gotcha measure exodus of the importance of a deficit , what is the percentage of the GDP that he represents . 
confirms is recognized same streets the book red of triste memory . 
til there mentionnait Act norme that the Union European appliquait at ses members who voulaient adhérer at the treaty of Maastricht , authorized a deficit équivalent at 3p. cent of the GDP . 
quels are them facts ? 
exprimé fell percentage of the GDP , the deficit federal has been virtually reduced the half by the government precedent , passant of 8,7p. cent fell 1984 at 4,6p. cent fell 1990 - 1991 . 
ensuite , we awakened been frappés by series recession World who has a little grugé them gains yeas make remonter the deficit at 5,8p. cent of the GDP fell 1993 - 1994 . 
fell dépit of health recession , the deficit guardian at Act end of our mandate of close to three points of percentage inférieur at what that he guardian when we analyzed arrivés at the power , even after them ajouts facts by foreign Liberals at the surveillance of them five derniers months of the year financière . 
he is indéniable that we awakened shirts them finances translated streets a well meilleur état fell 1993 that when we analyzed arrivés at the power fell 1984 . 
commentator a analyste of the Council private the has signalé - and he is interesting to noter that bearer analyste is today today at the Senate , chez our friends of fell opposite : 
[ ... ] all levels deficits and toutes them augmentations of health debt national étaient attribuables at the interest Act Act debt who existait before that ... 
our 
... government not arrive at the power . 
quelles other measures prises by the government acclaimed contributed at the état Present of our economy ? 
the abolition of the Agency of sober of the investment abroad . 
streets the sector énergétique , by example , the Program énergétique attain , who has coûté of them billion to $ at the economy of the Alberta and has détruit the industry pétrolière has been aboli , the same that the tax Act them incomes pétroliers . 
the government has privatisé or dissous 39 companies of State and the other companies of portfolios similaires . 
series measure legislative has been adoptée and the foreign measures administratives acclaimed been prises afin of éliminer or the fusionner 41 agences , boards and commissions . 
these measures , conjuguées at Act rationalisation of them operations , laughed fact that 90 40,000 positions acclaimed been supprimés . 
the Teleglobe at Air Canada , fell passant by Canadair and Pétro - Canada , the nouvelles compagnies privées are nées yeas make Act competition and apply étendre Act a market Whalers of more fell more exigeant . 
Canadair and De Havilland étaient at the moment of their sale at Bombardier of them gouffres without fund streets lesquels til jetait of the money . 
today today , Canadair is a success streets the industry canadienne , with them sales of the Challenger , the Government avion of transportation régional at reactions and the Government Global Express . 
the free - Exchange with them States - U.S. and the NAFTA acclaimed been and are at the heart of much of our accomplishments . 
the Opposition , mostly celle of them Liberals , has been extremely virulente . 
til has diaboliséM. Mulroney and 3.25 fell question our patriotisme . 
he is now clear that we awakened chosen Act good voie yeas the Canada . 
seuls them Liberals pouvaient souscrire at these policies without broncher ? 
til seems wheel widely oublié now that foreign Liberals apply are opposés with véhémence at the Agreement - free - Exchange with them States - U.S. and at the NAFTA who englobait the Mexico yeas them accept ensuite without contingency when they are arrivés at the power . 
fell 1988 , health dernière year before Act implementation fell implementation of the Agreement - free - Exchange between the Canada and Oceans States - U.S. , our exports of marchandises toward them States - U.S. apply are élevées at 101 billion to $ . 
honourable senators , he has fallu 120 years at partir of health Confederation yeas that our exports toward them States - U.S. atteignent cent billion to $ . 
he not has fallu that ten years streets the framework of the free - Exchange yeas dépasser them 250 billion to $ . 
Incidence them calamités who devaient apply abattre Act we according them Liberals at Act subsequently of health conclusion of the Agreement - free - Exchange , he rereads Partnerships Act disparition of the EI - illness , the Government development régional and the our institutions culturelles . 
without the free - Exchange , our economy aurait avoided fort well stagner at the surveillance of them years 90 . 
confirms not wants not say that everyone confirms not has not been réalisé without sacrifices anguishes bouleversements . 
commentator the Council Heritage of them chefs of companies the has said : 
our exports acclaimed been the étoile Act more brillante streets Act galaxie canadienne . 
he is fair to say without équivoque that the free - Exchange is a success remarkable . 
who could never forget everything the chahut that he rereads has strokes streets unabated enceinte ? 
fell fact , he serait very difficult to find a precedent streets blunt our history . 
durant them election of 1993 , business Liberals acclaimed promised to Abolish unabated excise and the Day substitute . 
transport Canadians acclaimed voted fell grandfather number fell croyant that what serait the case . 
six years later later , unabated excise is always là . 
why ? 
health response is évidente . 
til has prouvé that he remembered notional of series excise initiale visible and progressive of the standpoint of standpoint Housing . 
confirms apply is also avéré bénéfique yeas our economy , particularly at the level of them exports , and the government fell has tiré of them revenues importantes . 
the ancienne excise of 13,5p. cent Act them sales of them manufacturers that we awakened abolie constituait series excise cachée nuisible at them exports . 
the Agreement - free - Exchange between the Canada and Oceans States - U.S. , the NAFTA , health GST , health privatization , health déréglementation , the abolition of the Program énergétique attain and the replacement of the Agency of sober of the investment abroad by Investissement Canada are toutes of them measures faisant part of health restructuring and the Day modernization of the economy canadienne . 
the one standpoint of standpoint fiscal , health reduction of the deficit and health restructuring of the government acclaimed began blocks 1984 , and non fell 1994 commentator certaines persons essaient of the make croire . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
hon. Senator LeBreton , I ai the regret to you interrupt , but your time to parole is elapsed . 
the senator LeBreton : 
honourable senators , me donnez - you Act leave of continue ? 
his Honour the Speaker : 
is - what the agreement ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator LeBreton : 
toutes these courageuses political acclaimed two caractéristiques fell commun . 
what is a government Conservative who them has adoptées and Oceans Liberals them acclaimed toutes combattues , votant against chacune of thin . 
when the government Mulroney took quitté the power fell June 1993 , he rereads Partnerships 1.4 million for jobs of more than fell September 1984 . 
the rate préférentiel guardian of 6 p.100 , the level the most low fell 20 years . 
the rate of inflation guardian of 1,5p. cent , the rate the most low fell 30 years . 
transport Nations Nations venaient of déclarer that the Canada occupait the Prime rang at the world yeas what who is the Day quality of health life . 
but what who regardless still davantage , honourable senators , what is that foreign attitudes acclaimed changed . 
thanks at our efforts , business Canadians acclaimed including the importance of health reduction of the deficit , what that they not étaient not loans at make he rereads has ten years . 
he rereads has few years , business professeurs Thomas Velk and A . R . Riggs of the University McGill , codirecteurs of the program of them studies north - américaines at McGill , laughed analysé Act performance economic of the Canada Subcommittee all levels premiers ministers since Act Seconde Guerre World . 
these experts of the economy acclaimed comparé them results regarding the unemployment , the inflation , health growth , the rate of interest , health value of the dollar , health distribution of the Income , the deficit and Oceans rate of Tolls . 
bye damned conclusion fell are - they arrivés ? 
i quote directly to their study . 
the bilan objective of Mulroney - understandings at them figures Act Act performance exodus of the economy canadienne - is the meilleur of them 35 dernières years . 
commentator I the ai said at the beginning , all these facts indéniables apply are perdus streets Act turbulence of health misinformation and the Day falsification of health truth of health share of health formidable machine of propaganda appelée Le Party Liberal of the Canada . 
transport consultants fell Communications of them Liberals and their friends lèche - bottes streets them media disent now at the country at breaching standpoint the government Present has courageusement éliminé the deficit , redressé the economy and sauvé the country . 
jean Chr and Paul Martin acclaimed already commandé their auréole . 
unabated thèse tourne autour of the allegation according laquelle the nouveau government Liberal Partnerships inherited fell 1993 the genus situation economic and budgétaire extremely mauvaise . 
lors of a debate télévisé at the surveillance of health campaign électorale of 1997 , Rand Chr has same spoke of health " situation désastreuse " whose he Partnerships inherited . 
Koppel . Chr tenait can - perhaps series another of ses fameuses conversations with them without - abri . 
he not Partnerships évidemment inherited of nothing to tel . 
the work préparatoire Partnerships been done yeas series solide resuming economic axée Act them exports . 
our political acclaimed provoqué a change structurel carking at the Canada , based on plan to them taxes , the Government inflation and the foreign échanges trading . 
thin étaient impopulaires , but nécessaires . 
honourable senators , business Canadians devraient with reason apply réjouir of these results , but reconnaissons - fell the deserves , the Government less fell part , at which he revient . 
commentator the former prime minister Brian Mulroney the has said a day , business ministers of them Finance Michael Wilson and Don Mazankowski acclaimed ensemencé the jardin and Paul Martin fell cueille them fleurs . 
fell activist that Canadienne , I me réjouis of these results and I cannot rechigne not at reconnaître àM. Martin everything the deserves who him revient . 
we all who siégeons currently at the Parliament awakened fell effect Act chance to see the foreign policies âprement contestées produire finalement of them results bénéfiques who renforcent Act tissu Housing of our country . 
honourable senators , we awakened said at them Canadians Act truth that they devaient connaître at the topic of the free - Exchange , the Government NAFTA , the Day GST , the Day reduction of the deficit , the Day low inflation , the Government airport Pearson , the Government achat of them helicopters and we awakened same cru streets unabated vieille tradition Parliamentary that is Act responsibility ministérielle . 
our political Economic acclaimed been fort contestées streets of nombreux circles , but we awakened répété maintes and maintes once that if thin étaient adoptées and mises fell application Act series attest period , the Canada serait series Nation transformée . 
the deficit serait éliminé , business exports connaîtraient series growth phénoménale and the course - perhaps economic of them Canadians and the foreign members of their families petitioners améliorés streets a climate non inflationniste . 
we cannot awakened not promised Act perfection ; we awakened everything simply said that he rereads aurait of them progress importants . 
i am very fière that condolences colleagues and moi of what side - ci of health House ayons contributed and continuons of contributing widely at what progress important . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , if the Honourable Senator Kroft prend now Act parole , his speech fingertips yeas effect of clore the debate Act Act motion . 
the Honourable Richard H . Kroft : 
streets his Adresse fell response at the speech of the Trône , the senator Furey we took fact profiter of dapper own perspective issue of health limite is the our country analyzed that the Hon. experience personnelle . 
since what moment , the nombreux senators acclaimed participated at the debate and acclaimed fact valoir a vast éventail of ideas . 
what is a debate which apply is déroulé according them meilleures traditions of unabated enceinte . 
streets mon adresse , I ai fact them observations suivantes : 
he incombe at the government ' écouter carefully everything the world , the mener ses propres studies and Evaluations and , fell bout of piste , the determine a plan to Action . 
what is based Act faith of what plan to Action and the Hon. effectiveness at the allegiances fell implementation that the government arranged jugé . 
more important still , what is the Day quality of these decisions and the foreign measures adoptées by the government that dépendront the future and the course - perhaps the Government Canada and the foreign Canadians . 
honourable senators , the government has heard now our voice and has the advantage of power compter Act our advice . 
confirms étant said , run he not there has not to other orateurs , I am pleased to inscrire unabated motion at mon name . 
( Act motion is adoptée with dissidence and the Adresse fell response at the speech of the Trône is adoptée . ) 
( Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Hays , he is ordonné that the Adresse authorized grossoyée and présentée at His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale by His Honour the Speaker . ) 
the speech of the trône 
the Adresse fell response - Motion Refer at Act end of the debate on eighth day to postponement - Retrait of the article 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Hays , seconded by the Honourable Senator Mercier : 
that foreign deliberations at the Order of the day yeas Act resuming the Government debate Act Act motion Refer at the adoption of series Adresse fell response at the speech of the Trône , prononcé by His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale appeared them Houses of the government , run terminent the eighth day to postponement where the Order fingertips been débattu ; 
and based Act motion of adjournment of the Honourable Senator Kinsella , seconded by the Honourable DeWare , that royal motion not authorized not now adoptée but that she authorized modifiée fell supprimant the word " eighth " and fell the remplaçant by the word " fourteenth " . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I request that royal motion No. 2 , Subcommittee " Affairs - Government government " , authorized rayée of the Order of the day , puisque she never is more pertinente . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , we devons of thanking obtain the consent of the author of the amendment , seen that royal motion is currently at the study . 
the author of the amendment souhaite he withdraw Act motion ? 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
his Honour the Speaker : 
the Honourable Senator Kinsella asking that his amendment authorized retiré . 
is - what the agreement , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
the Honourable Senator Hays request that dapper motion authorized withdrawn . 
is - what the agreement , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( the article is retiré . ) 
health Act Act Act dénonciation streets Act function Public 
second reading - adjournment of the debate 
essentially , the bill to Bill S - 13 apply sciences streets the right incorrigible of them values and the Government Ethics of health function Public fédérale . 
the bill to Bill apply adresse at Act function Public professionnelle and modern that we awakened Act chance to wheel at the Canada . 
fell fact , I am the notice that royal function Public of the Canada not has not his attainment streets the world . 
a report entitled : " De solides guarding " examine them values and the Ethics streets Act function Public . 
he remembered notional of the report of a group of work overburdened fell place by the Clerk of the Council private he rereads has few years already and chaired by the regretté John Tait , a former colleague the Government Subcommittee - Minister of health Howe . 
what report Partnerships yeas objet of help Act function Public at réfléchir and , streets some cases , at redécouvrir and understand ses values fondamentales , and finally at renouveler his commitment at their regard streets all levels aspects of his work . 
i recommends Act Reading - unabated publication at the Honourable Senator . 
some of them questions and Problems identifiés commentator concerns of them officials Airports comptent the Evolution of them conventions Act Act responsabilisation ; the conflict between them anciennes and Oceans nouvelles values ; them challenges of Order déontologique that créent them nouveaux services and Oceans nouvelles approches fell matière of management streets Act function Public ; and the leadership and health management of them resources Resources fell unabated époque of grands changes . 
the bill to Bill S - 13 tente of montrer Act necessity of fournir a framework yeas régler Act question of health protection of them dénonciateurs streets the nouveau context of the Ethics and the foreign values commentator touchstone important to our function Public canadienne . 
the framework destiné at régler Act question of health protection of them dénonciateurs prévu streets the bill to Bill S - 13 is fondé Act the regime déontologique who , very frankly and fortunately , is the most fell more fréquent streets our function Public . 
commentator confirms is indiqué at Act page 54 of the report Tait , a regime déontologique : 
more loin , at Act page 55 , the report Tait fact observer what who suit : 
the one of them elements of the regime déontologique auquel we désirons accorder series importance particulière is Act implementation fell place at the Breast of them agencies of health function Public of mechanisms of Points appropriés , analyzed that the advisors , or the protecteurs of them officials , when ceux - ci estiment that eux - mêmes or the other palatable apply find streets series situation of conflict of interests , that they Cutbacks opposite at the foreign difficulties of Order déontologique , laughed the sentiment that til exerce of them pressure Act eux , or that til their request for prendre of them measures contraires at the Ethics , at them values of health function Public or at the interest public . 
transport officials we acclaimed said several once that he is inutile of their ask the préserver them values of health function Public or the foreign standards élevées fell matière of Ethics , if til not their fournit not them outils yeas the make . 
the one of these outils essentiels is series human accessible at which they puissent apply adresser , fell blunt confidence , yeas obtain the foreign advice , express the foreign composition at the topic of instructions reçues , or consigned series grave derogation at the code déontologique of health function Public . 
series telle human doit wheel the ancienneté , the self and the autorité nécessaires yeas exercer efficacement ses duties and protect the identity and the station of ceux who acclaimed Points at ses services . 
he tangibly allegiances fell place to them mechanisms conformes at them values of health function Public who permettent at them officials of express their concerns at the hook of measures potentiellement illégales , contraires at the Ethics or incompatibles with them values of health function Public , and the give subsequently at their composition of way fair and impartiale . 
honourable senators , the bill to Bill S - 13 VI at give subsequently at the desire exprimé by Act function Public she - even , at savoir gerrymandering of offer a service of first quality . 
health structure of the bill to Bill richly Act four pillars . 
he remembered notional , commentator Prime pillar , the ensure , at the level of health Subcommittee - section , series management of them departments and the foreign agencies who authorized conforme at the Ethics and who authorized fondée Act to them values , the telle sorte that foreign gestionnaires and , at the bout of the countdown , the minister pertinent him ? same , participent at Act resolution of them problems . 
the second pillar pertains Act collaboration réciproque and health necessity of serve the interest public . 
the third pillar BNA at prévoir a moyen of traiter them allegations of conduites répréhensibles , the way at adhere the interest public and at décharger them officials dénonciateurs of the obligation stressante of apply preoccupation of them case of conduites répréhensibles fell confiant ceux - ci at the one of them three commissaires of health Commission of health function Public of the Canada . 
the fourth pillar of the bill to Bill réside streets Act protection of them dénonciateurs . 
the bill to Bill S - 13 comporte therefore the foreign provisions empêchant them measures to représailles . 
the model , honourable senators , premièrement , protège the interest public fell General ; deuxièmement , enrichit Act function Public fell activist that institution of first category ; troisièmement , introduces Act reddition of comptes and health research of solutions at the level of health Subcommittee - section ; and , quatrièmement , protège them officials . 
the alinéa 2 has ) introduces that til insiste Act the education and that til sensibilise them persons travaillant streets the instead of work of health function Public at the Ethics and at the importance of them values fell milieu of work . 
the second " P " veterinary at the process . 
the alinéa 2 b ) has yeas objet of protect the interest public fell instituant a mechanism yeas permettre at them officials of health function Public of dénoncer fell blunt confidentialité of them abus or omissions streets the instead of work at a Commissioner independent , a result them three commissaires of health Commission of health function Public . 
he reviendra ensuite at what Commissioner , streets the interest public , the mener of them investigations and the ensure the suivi necessary . 
finally , the third " P " veterinary at Act protection . 
the alinéa 2 c ) indique that the bill to Bill has yeas objet of protect these officials against the foreign measures to représailles yeas wheel denounced at unabated commission spéciale , the good faith , or wheel the intent of the make , the foreign conduites répréhensibles at the Breast of the instead of work . 
transport honourable senators constateront that the framework of the bill to Bill is clear and simple . 
health function Public she - even lobbyist at unabated question of Ethics and the values . 
his bilan is excellent , account tenu of the level élevé of professionalism that manifestent our officials , who acclaimed been at the service of several governments différents at the incorrigible of them years . 
we devrions perhaps fiers of health function Public of the Canada . 
unabated question of dénonciation is series reality with laquelle of other sphères of jurisdiction acclaimed unsuccessfully of composer . 
transport governments who faces are succédé acclaimed manifesté their interest yeas tenter of prévoir series measure legislative appropriée Act Act dénonciation . 
the model that we proposons streets what Bill of Bill , based lequel , espérons - Government , the committee sénatorial compétent invitera them intéressés at introduce to them instances , VI everything simply at désigner a result them three commissaires of health Commission of health function Public of the Canada at title of Commissioner of the interest public auquel a fonctionnaire rose noticed series activité illégale or series conduct reprehensible ferait series dénonciation . 
health dénonciation serait confiée at the commissioner of the interest public afin that the fonctionnaire not fell authorized not the odyssey responsible , account tenu of blunt the anxiété and the Government stress that confirms guess . 
the absence of activité reprehensible is streets the interest of health population . 
what is why the bill to Bill introduces Act tenue of series inquiry by the commissioner of the interest public same . 
series dénonciation can sometimes apply révéler futile and vexatoire . 
she serait rejetée fell first instance , the sorte that he not there aurait aucune loss of time yeas the individu , the Department or the agence fell question . 
series dénonciation of good faith donnerait instead at series inquiry at the surveillance of laquelle the commissioner apply rendrait at the Department . 
what last serait guest at gérer of manner at redresser Act situation , because that he is the first importance that the functioning and health management of them departments and the foreign agences soient conformes at them rules of the Ethics and at them values which are the touchstone of our function Public . 
he not is not question of series approach descendante . 
he remembered notional rather of maintain the obligation to tribute account and health responsibility at the level of them operations . 
however , if the Commissaire of the interest public chargé of series dénonciation of conduct reprehensible jugeait that he not receives not series response satisfactorily of the agence or the Government Department , he could apply adresser at the minister , who doit finalement tribute to them comptes , and the minister verrait at rectifier Act situation . 
fell élaborant what mechanism , we awakened jugé extremely important that royal function of implementation fell value and the sensibilisation continues to revert at Act Commission of health function Public . 
finally , he guardian necessary to prévoir Act protection of the exigence légale of health confidentialité . 
she doit perhaps maintenue blocks that the fonctionnaire dépose series plainte auprès of the commissioner , thanks at the prohibition of blunt measure of représailles . 
honourable senators , what are them principles which underlies - tendent what Bill of Bill No. 
i fell ai tracé them grandes lines . 
i invite condolences colleagues at participate at the debate . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Finestone , the debate is adjourned . ) 
health Act Act Act Assent Royal 
second reading - Motiond' amendment ? Points of the Speaker 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Lynch - Staunton , seconded by the Honourable Senator Kinsella , Refer at Act second reading of the bill to Bill S - 7 , Act relative at them modalités of octroi by the Governor General , at the name of Majesty Majesty , the Day Assent Royal at them bills of Bill adoptés by foreign Houses of the Parliament ; 
and based Act motion of amendment to the Honourable Senator Cools , seconded by the Honourable Senator Sparrow , that the bill to Bill not authorized not now read series second once , but rather when his mover remplira Act condition exigée by Act bill to the Parliament before the adoption by the Parliament of a bill to Bill of initiative Parliamentary amend series prerogative Royal , unabated condition préliminaire étant Act signification of the consent royal of Majesty Majesty at the study by the Parliament of ses interests streets the bill to Bill S - 7 , who move the limiting and the BNA them formalités of octroi of health Assent Royal by Majesty Majesty at the Canada , and the Government same coup of modify Act constitution of the Senate . - ( 
decision to the Speaker ) . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , if confirms convient at the Senate , I am loan at tribute ma decision now . 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
the 1er December , at the surveillance of the debate fell second reading of the bill to Bill S - 7 relatively at them modalités of octroi by the gouverneur General , at the name of Majesty Majesty , the Day Assent Royal , the senator Cools has proposed a subamendment . 
the amendment aurait yeas effect of Extend Act second reading of the bill to Bill until at what that the mover of the bill to Bill , the senator Lynch - Staunton , obtienne Act signification of the consent royal . 
the senator Cools has done valoir that bearer amendment apply imposait , étant rose that the bill to Bill , at his opinion , modifie series prerogative Royal . 
based what , the senator Lynch - Staunton has contesté the amendment fell invoquant the rules . 
the senator Carstairs , puis the senator Kinsella acclaimed déclaré that they étaient of agreement with Act Position of the senator Lynch - Staunton . 
répondant at these objections , the senator Cools has nié that the amendment proposed cherche at impose the foreign restrictions at which that authorized . 
streets what case - ci , however , the senator Cools has soutenu that étant rose that the bill to Bill modifierait series prerogative Royal fell agissant Act them powers of health souveraine relatively at Act Assent Royal , he particulars give series indication commentator whereupon the Governor General or Majesty Majesty Act Queen consent at Act proposal contenue streets the bill to Bill S - 7 . 
the senator Cools has rose commentator example the debate which has entouré the study of health Parliament Act fell 1911 , bill which autorise the Parliament at adopt the foreign bills of Bill fell contournant Act House of them Lords . 
i ai , since the Points at the rules , examined all levels facts and am now loan at me prononcer . 
everyone of thanking , he rereads has streets mon spirit two elements at considérer streets what Points at the rules . 
the Prime , well course , pertains Act question of them prérogatives royales . 
the second door Act the kind of amendment which is authorized at the phase of health second reading . 
i traiterai of thanking of the second élément . 
bye Act second reading , the Senate is appelé at voter Act the principle of the bill to Bill , that the Senate accepte or non his intention first . 
unabated primauté of the principle of the bill to Bill has conduit at limiting the type of amendment which may perhaps proposed at unabated phase . 
bye share Act motion of question préalable , who is series motion of replacement , he rereads has essentially two types of amendment which are licences fell second reading , the referred at several months and the amendment motivé . 
the referred at several months VI at Extend the study of the bill to Bill fell proposant that he authorized read : " series second once streets six or three months at compter of what day " . 
health form of health motion is well établie ; she has been créée by the Parliament britannique he rereads has more of two centuries afin of contourner Act definition too canvas of the term " now " streets Act motion usuelle Convey second reading : " Que the bill to Bill [ ... ] authorized now read series second once " . 
the our days , she sert usually at prolonger the debate , étant rose that she gives at them persons who faces are already exprimées Act Act motion principale Act possibility of prendre at nouveau Act parole . 
the amendment motivé , by against , is a mechanism yeas make enregistrer series statement or series explanation , Subcommittee form of Motion , yeas specifying why a bill to Bill not should not perhaps read series second once . 
streets them facts , commentator the explique the ouvrage Jurisprudence Parliamentary of Beauchesne , 6e edition , at the commentaire 670 , at Act page 207 , the amendment motivé doit respond at some criteria . 
the amendment motivé doit affirmer something principle which aille at the encontre or apply écarte of them principles , the foreign objectives or the foreign provisions of the bill to Bill or he can 209 them circumstances relatives at Act Presented or at the examination of the bill to Bill , or fell make valoir of other yeas apply opposer at his Adopted . 
the most , the commentaire 671 ( 3 ) , at Act page 208 , laisse hear that the amendment motivé not doit not poser of conditions at Act second reading . 
Seneca the amendment proposed by the senator Cools : 1er December : 
that the bill to Bill S - 7 not authorized not now read series second once , but rather when his mover remplira Act condition exigée by Act bill to the Parliament before the adoption by the Parliament of a bill to Bill of initiative Parliamentary amend series prerogative Royal , unabated condition préliminaire étant Act signification of the consent royal of Majesty Majesty at the study by the Parliament of ses interests streets the bill to Bill S - 7 , who move the limiting and the BNA them formalités of octroi of health Assent Royal by Majesty Majesty at the Canada , and the Government same coup of modify Act constitution of the Senate . 
by conséquent , health motion of amendment not is not recevable and not can perhaps implementation at them Senators commentator amendment at the phase of health second reading of the bill to Bill S - 7 . 
confirms however not rule not the problem completely . 
commentator I the ai said précédemment , he rereads has two aspects at considérer streets what Points at the rules . 
commentator the has indiqué the senator Cools streets his intervention , the consent is necessary when a bill to Bill entend toucher them prérogatives , business incomes héréditaires , business biens or the interest personnels of health crown . 
streets what case - ci , he not done nil doubt that the odyssey topic of the bill to Bill S - 7 is gerrymandering of health prerogative Royal . 
the bill to Bill not derogation aucune provision regarding Casual biens or the interest personnels of health Queen . 
health issue at laquelle he tangibly respond , Robbie , is the savoir if a bill to Bill who move the foreign formalités other than Act ceremony of Assent Royal modifie series prerogative of health crown . 
fell exposant his standpoint of standpoint , the senator Cools apply is reporté at the foreign commentaires facts at the Parliament britannique durant the debate entourant Act Parliament Act fell 1911 . 
i avoue not not too savoir how bearer example can enlighten them circumstances which we concernent . 
transport observations of lord Lansdowne Cutbacks ressortir Act necessity of obtaining the consent royal when a bill to Bill modifie series prerogative Royal , without however specifying Act nature anguishes Act scope of health prerogative Royal , particularly fell what who has trait at them usages constitutionnels of the Canada . 
the afternoon Beauchesne , health issue of the consent royal can perhaps éminemment importante yeas Act decision finale regarding a bill to Bill No. 
bye the commentaire 726 ( 2 ) , at Act page 221 , he is said that " his défaut ( the consent royal ) rend nulles and non avenues them deliberations antérieures fell standpoint of the adoption of the bill to Bill " . 
commentator of nombreux honourable senators ' savent , what not is not Act first once that the Senate expecting a bill to Bill Act Act Assent Royal . 
fell 1985 , the committee of them privileges , the Government Rules and the Day procedure has presented a report Act Act Assent Royal , who recommandait notamment Act rédaction of series resolution yeas that series adresse conjointe authorized envoyée at the Governor General demandant that he approuve Act Modified of health ceremony of Assent Royal . 
however , the report no has never been passed by the Senate . 
bye the surveillance of condolences recherches , I ai also constaté that , when the Parliament britannique Partnerships adopted the Ballet Assent Act fell 1967 , the consent royal has been signifié activist at Act House of them Lords that at Act House of them Commons before the adoption of the bill to Bill No. 
fell fact , the consent royal has been announced before Act second reading , commentator the senator Cools suggère that til circulation with the bill to Bill S - 7 . 
based unabated question , Beauchesne dispose at the commentaire 726 ( 2 ) that " the usage wants that the consent royal authorized signifié blocks the commencement of the debate " . 
streets the paragraph suivant , Beauchesne explique at the commentaire 727 ( 1 ) that " well that the consent puisse perhaps signifié at not regardless damned phase of them deliberations précédant the adoption définitive of the bill to Bill , the usage of health House ( des Commons ) wants that he the authorized lors of health Presented of health motion Convey second reading " . 
the most , he seems that the usage of signifier the consent royal at the Canada not has almost never hits the Senate and health House of them Commons . 
streets them nombreux case where the consent royal has been obtenu and signifié , I ai constaté that he is usually signifié at Act House of them Commons and rarely at the Senate . 
fell fact , I cannot ai trouvé that a case where the consent royal has been signifié streets our house . 
confirms apply is past fell 1951 , fair before Act second reading of the bill to Bill 192 , Act amend Act Act Act them petitions of right . 
the usage at the Canada ' give the consent royal at Act House of them Commons only has been relevé by the ouvrage of procedure Parliamentary Parliamentary Procedure Mail Practice in Chairperson Dominion of Canada ' John Bourinot , who remonte at 1884 , streets dapper first edition . 
a example datant of 1886 , content streets Act fourth edition of 1916 , gives a example where the consent royal has been signifié , at Act House of them Commons and non at the Senate , streets the case of a subamendment by the Senate at a bill to Bill private of them Communes . 
confirms seems a example acceptable to series derogation at them usages of Westminster . 
that make streets them présentes circumstances ? 
commentator I the ai already explained , til not can utiliser a subamendment motivé commentator the senator Cools : has proposed . 
he aurait can - perhaps better valu raise Act question Subcommittee form of Points at the rules at the instead of propose an amendment at the phase of health motion of second reading . 
néanmoins , even Subcommittee form of Points at the rules , I cannot ai nothing heard who me obligerait , fell ma quality of Speaker , at Extend the debate Act the bill to Bill S - 7 at the phase of health second reading . 
the consent royal is perhaps - perhaps necessary , but fell function of them precedents Airports , he seems that nothing not exige obligatoirement that the consent royal authorized rose fell unabated enceinte . 
fell consequential , I déclare that the amendment not is not recevable and that the debate fell second reading Act the projetde bill S - 7 can apply pursue . 
i move however that , if what Bill of Bill is passed fell second reading , the committee auquel the bill to Bill arranged renvoyé expecting also Act question of the consent royal . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Poulin , the debate is adjourned . ) 
health Act Act the Parliament of the Canada 
bill to Bill Amend - Second Reading - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Grafstein , seconded by the Honourable Senator Callbeck , Refer at Act second reading of the bill to Bill S - 5 , Act amend Act Act Act the Parliament of the Canada ) poète cc of the Parliament ) . - 
( the Honourable Senator Kinsella ( . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I interviens yeas make few commentaires Act the principle of the bill to Bill S - 5 , Act amend Act Act Act the Parliament of the Canada ) poète cc of the Parliament ) . 
the thanking , I tiens at consigned at them honourable senators that I supports the principle of the bill to Bill No. 
i brevity the senator Grafstein of wheel porté unabated question at our attention . 
traditionnellement fell Britain - Britain , the subheading of poète cc of the Parliament is décerné by the monarque at a poète who has the duty to rédiger them odes and Oceans toward commémoratifs . 
what is a vestige of health coutume médiévale according laquelle of them versificateurs and the foreign ménestrels teamwork part of health subsequently Royal and also the Government époque more récente where the foreign poètes commentator Chaucer and Spencer profitaient of the mécénat royal . 
Ben Jonson seems wheel been the poète cc of Charles Ier fell 1617 , but the subheading Present , fell English laureate , tiré of health coutume grecque and Roman of couronner of laurier , has been attribué yeas Act first once at John Dryden fell 1670 . 
petit fact anecdotique fell passant , honourable senators ; at a moment rose , John Dryden fut battu series once by the foreign opposants political because that he Partnerships wrote a pamphlet that they not specialist not aimé ; the époque guardian dangereuse , even yeas a poète . 
these dernières years , business duties protocolaires of the station acclaimed been éliminées streets series large measure . 
transport successeurs immédiats of Dryden acclaimed been Thomas Shadwell , Nahum Tate , Nicholas Rowe , Laurence Eusden , Colley Cibber , William Whitehead , Thomas Warton , Henry Pye and Robert Southey . 
health plupart of these poètes , honourable senators , business successeurs of Jonson and the Dryden , étaient considérés commentator of them écrivaillons ; they are désormais tombés streets the oubli , and human not them bed more . 
William Wordsworth , the 1843 at 1850 , and Alfred , lord Tennyson , the 1850 at 1892 , laughed been the foreign candidates authentiques and méritoires - even apply they not acclaimed rédigé aucune of their grandes oeuvres during that they assumaient them duties of poète cc . 
Alfred Austin , the 1892 at 1913 , is tombé streets the oubli , at fair title of the notice of some students fell littérature anglaise . 
John Masefield , the 1930 at 1967 , has been popular at the époque , but he is now tombé streets the oubli . 
Cecil Day - Lewis , the 1968 at 1972 , has composed of beaux poèmes who are still vivants , but he is mostly connu of our days because that he is the father of the acteur Daniel Day - Lewis . 
John Betjeman , who has occupé these duties of 1972 at 1984 and whose health Fame not guardian not extraordinary at the époque , has however been a excellent critique fell matière of architecture . 
Ted Hughes , who has assumé these duties of 1984 at 1999 , that God ait his soul , has been the meilleur poète cc since Tennyson . 
even apply he not guardian not also talentueux that the grandfather poète of the époque victorienne , he has probably been a meilleur poète cc . 
Hughes is became poète cc only after that Philip Larkin , considéré by bon number commentator the meilleur poète britannique of them 50 dernières years , ait refused these duties . 
even apply he guardian grandement admiré commentator poète , health plupart of them toward that Hughes has composés during that he guardian poète cc acclaimed been dénigrés at the standpoint of fell perhaps ridiculisés . 
Hughes has assumé the role of poète cc during 14 years , until at dapper death fell October 1998 . Dans the case of Hughes , he remembered is acted of series appointment at life récompensée by series caisse of sherry et100 books . 
i hope that we pouvons make better than confirms , Senator Grafstein . 
Andrew Motion , the nouveau poète cc of health Britain - Britain has been chosen by the Prime Minister Tony Blair . 
Koppel . Motion guardian perçu commentator the most conventionnel of them nombreux candidates suggérés and his choice has overburdened a term at them rumeurs alarmantes yeas them traditionalistes according lesquelles Tony Blair , the Prime Minister tourné toward Act modernité , aurait avoided écarter of them authors connus fell favour of a " poète of the Inuvialuit " . 
Sir Paul McCartney , the foreign Beatles , guardian a result them names mentionnés streets what context . 
the poète cc of health Britain - Britain is still approved by Act reine , but chosen at partir of series courte list by the Prime Minister . 
the poète chosen doit écrire of them toward Act Act family Royal and yeas of grandes occasions nationales and the grandes ceremonies . 
Robbie that the nombreux poètes mentionnés commentator candidates at the station acclaimed reculé appeared unabated exigence , Motion Partnerships démontré dapper very good volonté fell écrivant of him ? same a poème Act Act death of health princesse of Galles . 
health poète Carol Ann Duffy , the Glasgow , has déclaré that if she Partnerships been choisie , she aurait refused to celebrate fell toward the foreign events royaux commentator the wedding of the prince Édouard and the Sophie Rhys - Jones . 
she has said at the newspaper The Guardian : 
nil poète who faces diminishes not should wheel at the make . 
what station allows the make activist of other things intéressantes . 
he tangibly apply ask if confirms could perhaps dangerous streets the context Heritage étant rose Act diversity of our country . 
til can apply ask if a poète commentator Gaston Miron , by example , serait happy to écrire a poème yeas Act family Royal . 
we pourrions can - perhaps éliminer Act necessity of écrire of them poèmes at the topic of the state . 
i think that what serait a not streets Act good direction . 
the committee could souhaiter examiner unabated proposal . 
what is Act voie that foreign Americans acclaimed choisie with success . 
when the last poète cc is death fell Britain - Britain , the nombreux other poètes acclaimed shirts savoir that the station not them intéressait not . 
health reason , what is that royal plupart of between eux not voulaient not preoccupation what station , the Government fact that royal tradition wants that the Incumbent écrive of them poèmes yeas the state . 
the regretté poète irlandais Michael Hartnett has already said that royal poetry guardian a acte of rébellion . 
the poète Paul Durcan is became a ami very proche of Mary Robinson and he has composed a poème yeas his investiture at Act Ruling - Status Republic of Ireland , but Paul is the exception rather than Act rule . 
Seamus Heaney has past blunt dapper life at écrire of them poèmes who never reconnaissent not the state - campus of them reasons évidentes well heard . 
when a journalist of the York York Times has appelé Craig Raine , a poète of Oxford yeas him ask apply he guardian intéressé at devenir the next poète cc of health Britain - Britain , he remembered is exclamé : " Oh mon God , non " and he has raccroché . 
Andrew Motion , who Partnerships crié Act all levels toits that he convoitait the Employment , has said that he considérait what station commentator " a challenge extremely complex and interesting yeas a poète . " 
he has said : 
i think that I veux allegiances fell value them responsibilities traditionnelles who consistent at rédiger of them poèmes yeas of them occasions royales , notamment , but that I tiens also much at diversifier the Employment or , the Government less , at écrire of them poèmes touchant of them themes nationaux more larges whose I veux also parler . 
he has said that he voulait fell particular promote Act poetry at the école . 
he remembered is juré of not never rédiger of poèmes who soient " simply flagorneurs and sentimentaux " . 
motion 21.2 at Islington , the quartier of the north of London where vivait Blair before the installer ses pénates at the 10 , Downing Street . 
he has done ses studies at Oxford , and détient Act chaire of rédaction créative at the University of East Anglia , at Norwich . 
he has released nine recueils of toward , rédigé series biography of Keats saluée by Act critique and remporté the price Whitbread yeas dapper biography of Larkin , a poète who has refused the station of poète cc . 
certes , the station fell activist that tel not is not universellement tenu fell upper estimated , but Act course yeas his obtention risk of susciter a grandfather interest . 
transport paris officiels are commitments parWilliam Hill , health principale agence of paris of health Britain - Britain . 
outre Ms Duffy , health list of candidates comprend Seamus Heaney , Derek Walcott , Wendy Cope , Benjamin Zephaniah , James Fenton , Tom Paulin etGeoffrey Hill . 
streets a éditorial saluant the choice of Motion , the Times the London has said to him that he guardian 
... a poète at Act compréhension quiet , the genus tendre humanity and the genus strength lyrique . 
his implementation is typiquement britannique , authorized empreinte of health sea and the foreign marais salants , the losses personnelles and the Government past attain . 
honourable senators , I am conscient of the time , but I voulais when same souligner that the station of poète consultant rattaché at Act Library of the Congress is the équivalent validate . 
the station has been fondé fell 1938 at title of chaire of poetry , puis , fell 1984 , he has been changed yeas consultant . 
Incidence them poètes officiels of them States - U.S. , til account Robert Penn Warren , Richard Wilbur , Howard Nemerov , Mark Strand , Joseph Brodsky , Mona Van Duyn , Rita Dove , Robert Hass and Robert Pinsky . 
fell 1984 , Robert Penn Warren has been appointed Prime poète consultant of them States - U.S. yeas series durée of a 2000 by Act Library of the Congress . 
health appointment dure a 2000 , but she is renouvelable . 
much , said - til , laughed trend at convenir that foreign Americans acclaimed more of chances that foreign Britanniques with their poète cc , primarily because that he joue a role much more proactif . 
bye mon notice , honourable , what is a well meilleur role that gerrymandering who faces limite at composer of them toward yeas them events officiels . 
fell conclusion , honourable senators , I répète that , at mon notice , the bill to Bill S - 5 is series good idea who deserves that til the expecting carefully . 
he serait can - perhaps bon of apply ask if the subheading " poète cc " is the most approprié . 
bye them States - U.S. , he remembered appelle the " Poète advisor to health bibliothèque of the Congress " . 
some poètes Airports that I ai consultés yeas Act preparedness of these notes acclaimed proposed the foreign 209 of Nature less coloniale , more sensibles or culturellement neutres commentator " Poète fell residence at Act Library of the Parliament " or " Poète Parliamentary fell residence at Act Library national " . 
the other trouvent Act terminologie utilisée streets the bill deloi S - 5 a little dépassée . 
what is a standpoint auquel the committee which arranged chargé of examiner what Bill of Bill voudra can - perhaps réfléchir . 
the committee should also And Act nature of the committee of selection proposed . 
he serait can - perhaps bon that a poète fell circulation part . 
he serait can - perhaps bon also the make référence at the foreign associations of poètes commentator The League of Canadian Poets , The Writers' Union of Canada , The Canadian Authors Association , The Regional Writers Association and the other . 
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin : 
honourable senators , I voudrais inform Act House that I ai the intent of offer ma contribution at the debate , but most later . 
perhaps - perhaps the senator Hays voudrait - he ajourner the debate ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . ) 
health Act Act the Immigration 
bill to Bill Amend - Second Reading - Adjourned of the debate 
the Honourable Senator Ghitter ) 
perhaps honourable senators , I voudrais intervene today today streets the debate at the phase of health second reading of the bill deloi S - 8 , amend Act Act Act the Immigration , presented by mon colleague the Government west of the Canada , the senator Ron Ghitter . 
the system overburdened fell place yeas facilitate Act Presented and the examination of them bills of Bill sénatoriaux is the one of them aspects positifs of our rules . 
when I exerçais ma charge streets the another House , perhaps and I know that , at toutes purposes practices , the same regulation apply applies - campus that a bill to Bill of initiative privacy puisse perhaps débattu at the phase of health second reading , he wouldn fallait mood at the travers of a certain number of filtres . 
he not apply product virtually never streets the another place that a bill to Bill of initiative privacy puisse franchir the phase of health second reading and perhaps renvoyé at a committee . 
the bill to Bill at the study today today has the deserves the perhaps concis and the reading aisée . 
i invite instamment all ceux that royal question intéresse at apply fell procurer a copy . 
i am the elsewhere persuadé that what is already something introductory . 
i hope that , after that we fell aurons something little débattu at the phase of health second reading , the bill to Bill S - 8 arranged renvoyé at the committee . 
i think that he deserves that til there consacre of the time , not serait - what that yeas dénoncer them difficulties inhérentes at Act structure actuelle of the system of Immigration and the accueil of them refugees at the Canada . 
the bill to Bill S - 8 not is not inconnu of them honourable senators who étaient of them guardian at the fall 1987 . 
he reprend the text of the bill to Bill C - 84 that the Parliament Partnerships adopted at the époque . 
the bill to Bill C - 84 not is more fell vigueur since the 1er July 1989 . 
the bill to Bill S - 8 autorise the minister of the Citizenship at interdire at a bateau of entrer streets them waters intérieures or health sea territoriale of the Canada and , if what bateau is entré streets them waters intérieures or health sea territoriale of the Canada , he can ordonner that he authorized escorté at the Port of débarquement the most proche . 
he remembered notional well heard from steamship who transportent at their bord , or are soupçonnés of transporter at their bord , series human fell contravention of health Act Act the Immigration or the ses regulations . 
if the bateau apply trouve streets them waters intérieures of the Canada or streets Act limite of three miles and that , the nouveau , health minister of the Citizenship has the bonnes reasons of penser that the bateau transporte of them persons who souhaitent entrer at the Canada fell violant Act Act Act the Immigration or her regulation , she can diriger what bateau toward the Port the most proche yeas débarquer ceux who are at bord . 
what Bill of Bill has been presented streets dapper form originale fell 1987 at Act subsequently of two events . 
fell 1986 and 1987 , two steamship chargés of clandestins are arrivés at the Canada . 
based on Prime apply trouvaient of them Tamouls ; they acclaimed accosté fell Nova Scotia Nova fell 1986 . 
based on second apply trouvaient of them ressortissants of them Indes orientales ; they acclaimed accosté at Newfoundland - Newfoundland fell 1987 . 
we awakened now affair at the foreign steamship chargés of clandestins who viennent of China and who arrivent Act our Coast west ; they are conduits by the foreign trafiquants or the foreign passeurs . 
honourable senators , I me trouvais at the another place lors of the adoption of the prédécesseur of the bill to Bill S - 8 . 
ceux who faces opposaient at the adoption of the bill to Bill C - 84 , at the époque , affirmaient that he guardian inapplicable . 
i dis that we devons find a moyen of make fell sorte that he works . 
even apply he tangibly mener of them entrevues Act them ships fell sea before the foreign détourner or recourir at the other methods , we devons find a moyen . 
i believe that the Canada doit envoyer a message clear afin of décourager ceux who voudraient tirer of them profits of the routing of cargaisons Resources . 
commentator all levels senators apply fell souviennent , business events of the summer last at the large of health Coast of health British - British acclaimed irrité them Canadians because that we awakened strokes the sentiment that til profitait of the system of Immigration - and the refugees - Government later opened at the world . 
transport Canadians voulaient that the government agisse and dise at these combinards who teamwork entrer of them clandestins at the Canada streets of them steamship délabrés that we cannot tolérerions not to reassess mood of violation of our laws . 
the government not has nothing fact . 
unfortunately , he not has not commitments to measures yeas décourager these agissements . 
health minister of the Citizenship has announced , he rereads has two weeks , that she présenterait a nouveau bill to Bill Act the Immigration at the another place durant Act nouvelle year . 
series study of what Bill of Bill , fell unabated enceinte yeas Act second reading and at the committee , we aidera at prepare Act nouvelle bill Act the Immigration . 
i ai hurry of pursue the debate Act what Bill of Bill and the écouter , I the hope , business interventions of them senators who vivent close to them coasts Forces . 
honourable senators , what is make insulte at them persons who attendent of Welfare admises at the Canada fell activist that immigrants légaux . 
we , Canadians , not pouvons not offer to more beau cadeau at the world that royal citizenship canadienne . 
health sovereignty of our country réside , at the fond , streets our ability to surveiller our border . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I move : adjournment of the debate . 
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin : 
honourable senators , I comprends that the snakes move : adjournment of the debate , but I me request how we fell impotent arrivés at heed what debate yeas commencer . 
health motion is inscrite at the name of the senator Ghitter . 
we fell impotent at the fourteenth day to debate and a another senator has commitments Act parole the Prime at what topic . 
what is the privilege absolu of the senator who wants introduce series question of unabated nature of prendre Act parole the Prime . 
i ignore if the Germain Germain parlait at the name of the senator Ghitter . 
i guess that they apply are spoke . 
the Germain Germain lisait - he the allocution of the senator Ghitter ? 
is - what what who is arrivé ? 
the Germain Germain : 
not to the everything , honourable senators . 
i parlais fell mon name own . 
i ai said at the senator Ghitter that I allais prendre Act parole at what topic . 
he remembered fell is 3.25 at moi , me permettant of Welfare the Prime at prendre Act parole at the phase of health second reading . 
i ai saisi unabated opportunity . 
if confirms contrevient at the rules of the Senate , I am persuadé that , étant maîtres of our own assemblée , commentator of other senator acclaimed already said , we pourrons corriger Act situation . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , yeas clarify them things , I dirai that the Germain Germain has proposed Act motion at the name of the senator Ghitter . 
all confirms is therefore conforme at the rules . 
the Germain Germain Partnerships the Authorized to the senator Ghitter yeas procéder of unabated manner . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . ) 
the décret tabled pursuant at Act Act Act them transport at the Canada autorisant of them discussions Act series proposal of the sector private visant the achat of series society aérienne - Rapport of the committee of them transport and the foreign Communications - Adjourned of the debate 
the Senate proceeded at the study of the second report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them transport and the foreign Communications ( restructuring of the industry to the transportation aérien ) , presented at the Senate Committee 9 December 1999 . - ( Le hon. Senator Bacon ) . 
the Honourable Lise Bacon : 
honourable senators , I tiens at thank the vice - chairman of the committee , the senator Forrestall , analyzed that all levels senators who acclaimed participated at them travaux of what committee . 
during both months , business senators acclaimed listened carefully them testimony of différents groups who faces are présentés appeared our committee . 
we them awakened interrogés and we awakened discussed with sérieux of all levels aspects abordés streets the report . 
i believe that we pouvons perhaps fiers of the work that we awakened accompli . 
our report is balanced and reflects them vues of them witnesses entendus . 
transport members of the committee arresting perhaps fiers of Welfare arrivés at the bout of the countdown at parler of series same Senators , what who témoigne still series once the Day quality of them travaux of the Senate . 
by these recommendations , the committee has voulu protect them interests of them Canadians to toutes them regions of the country . 
transport members of the committee sénatorial Standing of them transport and the foreign Communications espèrent that these recommendations assureront at them Canadians , activist streets a future immédiat that éloigné , a service aérien effective , sécuritaire and affordable . 
we awakened also insisté yeas that lesarticles 64 and 65 of health Act Act them transport at the Canada soient renforcés yeas garantir that the transporteur dominant assure the service présentement offert at them towns Forces . 
our recommendation at the topic of the bilingualism , at savoir that all levels services offerts at the public by the transporteur dominant and ses affiliés soient assujettis at Act Act Act them languages Languages , reflects also our volonté that soient assurés them services essentiels auxquels them Canadians acclaimed the right to apply wait . 
bye the instar of the Bureau of health competition , business members of the committee acclaimed exprimé their composition appeared the absence possible for competition streets the industry aérienne at the Canada . 
what is why several of our recommendations reprennent fell part or totalement them suggestions faites by the Bureau of health competition . 
the committee recommends that the transporteur dominant apply commits at céder of them créneaux suffisants streets of them cities clés yeas permettre that he rereads ait series competition exodus . 
the committee recommends also at Transport Canada ' élaborer a nouveau framework réglementaire Act them créneaux yeas garantir that they soient cédés apply they not are not utilisés and that a number suffisant soient cédés at them nouveaux acteurs Act the market . 
streets the but the help them grandchildren carriers at offer series competition suffisante , the committee request that the government revoie the system informatisé of réservations afin of fell éliminer them caractéristiques who désavantagent them grandchildren carriers . 
til should also obliger the transporteur dominant at permettre at them nouveaux acteurs Act the market - purchase of them points of fidélisation of them grands travellers at a price reasonable . 
he should also perhaps tenu of negotiate the foreign ententes inter - compagnies and the foreign ententes of sharing the foreign codifies at the foreign conditions raisonnables with them nouveaux arrivants Act the market intérieur who désirent conclude of telles ententes . 
the committee has discussed fell term and fell large of health possibility of permettre Act competition of them companies Foreign Act the soil Heritage . 
he has rejeté Act teachings of cabotage pur , but has exprimé a certain interest yeas them rights of sixth freedom . 
he has therefore recommended that the government négocie with them States - U.S. yeas permettre Act sale of billets between two points at the Canada apply he rereads has escale streets series city of them States - U.S. . 
the committee hope that the industry aérienne canadienne deviendra finally prospère . 
what is why he remembered is partiellement rendu at the argument of several , voulant that he authorized préférable of augmenter the plafond limitant Act participation individuelle fell actions votantes streets Air Canada . 
series concentration more grande of them actions aurait , according some , the effect of augmenter Act performance financière of the congruent . 
streets a country couvrant a if vast territory , the industry aérienne not is not a luxe , but series necessity . 
what is series of them reasons yeas lesquelles we awakened jugé bon of limiting at 20p. cent Act participation individuelle fell actions votantes streets Air Canada . 
a plafond of 20p. cent permettra at them shareholders of better suivre the performance of health management of the congruent , everything fell limitant the risk of series prise of control étrangère . 
the another share , series increase the most of 25p. cent of health participation étrangère of Air Canada could allegiances fell péril the control Heritage of our most important transporteur attain . 
by elsewhere , the committee apply inquiète of the fate réservé at them employees affectés by Act restructuring fell surveillance . 
we demandons at the government ' insister auprès of the transporteur dominant yeas that foreign employees aient right at a treatment fair fell what who has trait at Act continuité of the service and at them conditions of departure if series telle something apply avérait necessary . 
series attention particulière should perhaps granted at them listes of ancienneté . 
finalement , the committee is the notice that if the government wants ensure a suivi effective of them commitments that he exigera of the transporteur dominant , he devra ask that royal reddition of them comptes apply déroule streets the framework of a forum public , commentator , by example , the foreign hearings tenues series once by year by the Office of them transport of the Canada , fell collaboration with the Bureau of health competition , and that the outcome of these hearings authorized renvoyé at the committee of them transport of health House of them Commons and at the committee sénatorial Standing of them transport and the foreign Communications . 
honourable senators , I believe that what is a bon report . 
we cannot cherchions not at protect the interest of them shareholders , but rather ceux of all levels consumers everywhere at the Canada . 
transport members of the committee acclaimed débattu énergiquement several questions . 
bye the bout of the countdown , we awakened succeeded at introduce a report balanced who témoigne of health quality of them travaux of the Senate . 
yet series once , what report shows how the Senate may play his role of institution Parliamentary indépendante . 
i rends tribute at all levels senators who acclaimed attended at our meetings and participated at our travaux . 
what are eux who acclaimed rendu what report possible . 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , I am pleased to intervene today today streets the debate Act the report of the committee Standing " Restructuration of the industry to the transportation aérien at the Canada " . 
til can difficilement qualifier what title of exact . 
he évoque however the subheading of a document that doit rédiger the Senate or the another place to here little . 
honourable senators , I tiens at congratulate Act patron of the committee , the senator Bacon , yeas Act way whose she has dirigé them hearings translated and Oceans sittings that has nécessitées Act rédaction of the report . 
he is difficult to heed of them hearings and the rédiger a report when Act situation that til expecting évolue constamment . 
what is specifically what who faces is produced during that the committee faisait ses travaux . 
the senator Bacon has done a excellent work and deserves toutes condolences congratulations . 
til has often accused the government ' not not agir , the laisser tomber , the manquer of ideas nouvelles , the profiter of them accomplishments of them governments antérieurs and , since the tabling of his récent bill to Bill Act them referendums , the create the foreign crises là where he not there fell Partnerships not . 
seriously however , unabated inaction and unabated incapacité of prévoir them problems not acclaimed never been also apparentes that streets the file of the transportation aérien at the Canada . 
health possibility of a odyssey transporteur dominant or the one monopoly we menaçait since a bon bout of time . 
what not is that when Act se - disant " crisis " is devenue imminente that the government has essayé of agir . 
he has rayé of the file a result them agencies at the Canada who comprend really well them questions touchant Act competition . 
i parle here , well heard , the Government Office of health competition of the Canada . 
the government has suspendu dapper participation at Act merger and , by Act subsequently , at the offers Public of achat dirigée by Onex , who never apply is not réalisée . 
we devons we ask why the government has acted analyzed . 
health response is simple : 
we cannot the savons not . 
breaching dérangement extraordinary apply annonçait yeas the system of transportation attain ? 
the quels elements probants disposait the minister ? 
we cannot the savons not . 
mostly , what who regardless well davantage , what is that not a odyssey of them witnesses , auxquels we awakened pourtant posé Act question , not has avoided respond at series of these issues . 
voilà can - perhaps why the committee has conclu that he not guardian not entièrement convaincu that the Points at the article 47 of health Act Act them transport nationaux guardian indiqué streets unabated situation . 
honourable senators , we aurions avoided we arrêter là . 
we aurions fact fi of health reality of them transformations who faces opéraient and who faces opèrent always streets the sector fell what moment same . 
the minister has posé at them intéressés of them questions Act them orientations and , streets the framework of our research of series solution at Act question relative àle section 47 , we awakened also heard from them testimony Act toutes these orientations . 
a result them objectives personnels that I poursuivais consistait at remind at them members of the committee that the commitment to the government precedent , everything commentator gerrymandering of the government Present , guardian Act déréglementation and non the inverse . 
the interest public doit perhaps protégé , but non at the moyen of a framework réglementaire . 
our postponement reflects Act conclusion according laquelle , the way générale , the Bureau of health competition should perhaps the body chargé of protect the interest public streets them transport aériens at the Canada . 
confions at the agence of them transport of the Canada Act task of veiller at Act security of them nouvelles businesses and the foreign nouvelles lines strikes , but laissons at the Bureau of health competition them questions liées at them monopolies nécessitant Act protection of the public . 
confirms entraînera the transfer of the agence national of them transport at the Bureau of health competition of series section of the agence possédant the expertise streets what field , but what should perhaps series congruent commerciale . 
honourable senators , condolences colleagues and moi awakened been impressionnés by the work effectué fell little of time by the Bureau of health competition at bearer regard . 
fell fact , our report Act the industry to the transportation aérien , currently at the study , run inspire fell grande part of the report of the office . 
health suggestion that the office has introductory of ensure Act competition is pleine of imagination , what who shows that he can réagir quickly at series situation . 
health rapidité of reaction is the genus importance cruciale yeas series industry which exige the investment of billion to $ fell immobilisations and health determination immediate of the moment where them resources Projections devraient perhaps investies and the damned way . 
account tenu of the time whose he disposait , the committee has effectué a job crédible . 
i cannot entrerai not streets the detail of them recommendations , car I cannot ferais that repeat streets well - Provincial case what that we venons of hear from rBST bouche of health patron . 
i me contenterai of say that we aurions avoided aborder more fell detail Act question of health cession of them companies strikes régionales by the transporteur jouissant of a monopoly . 
what is series question Act laquelle the Bureau of health competition should réfléchir more profondément , car he conviendrait of exiger Act cession of them companies strikes régionales . 
i parle fell the occurrence of competition . 
the Canada is a vast country . 
certaines parties not are accessibles by air that at some moments of the year . 
we devons ensure the access aérien at them regions isolées of our country , somewhat regardless the issue of them discussions actuelles Act the acquisition of companies strikes . 
well course , I inclus streets Act definition of " isolées " these regions of the Canada faiblement peuplées commentator the intérieur of health British - British , business provinces of the Atlantic and the other still . 
fell outre , the committee not has not exprimé also vivement that I the aurais voulu , or that the senator Roberge the aurait voulu , his Opposition referred Act proposal Air Canada - Hamilton . 
a transporteur monopolistique exploitant series company aérienne little coûteuse , without superflus , streets series grande city of the centre of the Canada , ferait surely disparaître blunt competition of health share of other compagnies strikes who arresting projeter or specialist avoided projeter of établir a service analogue streets unabated region or blunt another region of the Canada . 
honourable senators , he is inutile , fell what moment , the make the foreign conjectures Act the role curieux that has played streets everything confirms the minister of them Transport . 
he suffit of say that he not existait aucune policy . 
health necessity of invoquer the article 47 of health Act Act them transport at the Canada , Robbie that he not existait aucune Evidence that we ayons avoided recueillir , laisse at the history the soin of examiner the role and the lack of leadership of the minister . 
what who regardless désormais , honourable senators , what is that the minister of them Transport agisse yeas protect them interests of them travellers of the Canada against the foreign price exorbitants , the withdrawal of services and , mostly , series declining of them standards of security . 
he aurait advantage at examiner carefully and at allegiances fell implementation them recommendations of the committee sénatorial Standing of them transport and the foreign Communications who figurent streets his report Act Act restructuring of the industry to the transportation aérien . 
i you thank the your attention . 
i voudrais ajourner the debate at the name of the senator Johnson , if confirms is acceptable . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Forrestall , at the name of the senator Johnson , the debate is adjourned . ) 
Economy Internal , Budgets and Administration 
passage of the second report of the committee 
the Senate proceeded at the study of the second report of the committee Standing of health Economy Internal , the foreign Budgets and the Government administration ( situation budgétaire of them committees ) , presented at the Sénatle 9 December 1999 . - ( Le hon. Senator Rompkey , P ) . 
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin : 
honourable senators , I move : Adopted of what report . 
( Act motion is adoptée , and the report is passed . ) 
the Estimates for them Estimates for 1999 - 2000 
Authorized at the committee of them finances nationales of And the Estimates for them Estimates 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Murray , P , seconded by the Honourable Senator Beaudoin : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them finances nationales authorized authorized at And , afin of fell make report , business Estimates projetées streets the Estimates for them Estimates yeas the fiscal financier apply ending the 31 March 2000 ; and 
that the Comité présente his report at the most tardle 31 March 2000 , 
and based Act motion of amendment to the Honourable Senator Robichaud , P ( Saint - Louis - Request - Kent ) , seconded by the Honourable Senator Hervieux - Payette , P , that royal motion authorized modifiée by adjonction , after them mots " the Estimates for them Estimates yeas the fiscal financier apply terminantle 31 March 2000 " , the what who suit : 
" at the exception of them appropriation 1 , 5 and 10 of them Fisheries and Oceans ; 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them fisheries authorized authorized at And them Estimates projetées of them Fisheries and Oceans contenues streets the Estimates for them Estimates yeas the fiscal apply ending the 31 March 2000 ; and 
that the Comité présente his report at the most tardle 31 March 2000 . " - ( 
the Honourable Senator Stollery ) . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , the senator Murray not is not at Act House . 
the Order has trait at dapper motion and at them amendments présentés by the senator Robichaud . 
we pourrions everything of same traiter of unabated question blocks now . 
i voulais ask the notice of mon homologue , at savoir if we devrions the aborder fell the absence of the senator Murray . 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud : 
we pourrons there see everything of subsequently . 
the senator Hays : 
if I ai well including the arrangement , the senator Robichaud capitalists withdraw his amendment with Act leave of the Senate to fashion at what that the snakes puisse examiner Act motion of the senator Murray . 
the senator Robichaud proposera at Act first opportunity , probably tomorrow , series motion demandant the referred to bearer élément of the Estimates Main of them Estimates at the committee of them fisheries , puisque he relève of the Department of them Fisheries . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , if we procédons phase by phase , we atteindrons our but . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
i cannot know not very well what that everyone confirms wants say . 
there has he series request for withdrawal of health motion of amendment ? 
withdrawal of health motion of amendment 
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud : 
honourable senators , I query withdraw ma motion of amendment at Act motion of the Honourable Senator Murray . 
the Honourable Roch Bolduc : 
honourable senators , I query express the standpoint of standpoint of the committee of them finances nationales at what topic . 
i am at the courant of health issue . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
a instant . 
the senator Bolduc : 
the senator Murray not is not présent . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
the Honourable Senator Robichaud , P , Saint - Louis - Request - Kent , demand at the Senate Act leave of withdraw dapper motion of amendment . 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion of amendment is withdrawn . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , we analyzed of Return at Act motion of the Honourable Senator Murray . 
i am loan at you écouter , Honourable Senator Bolduc . 
the senator Bolduc : 
honourable senators , I cannot veux not prendre Act parole at the name of the senator Murray , but I query souligner that the mandate General of the committee sénatorial Standing of them finances nationales has always been , except few exceptions these dernières years , the And the whole of them forecasts budgétaires . 
however , if a committee particular , by example , the committee sénatorial Standing of the Agriculture or a another wants regarder them programs of spending of the Department of the Agriculture , he not there has not to problem . 
by against , the mandate not should not indiquer them mots " at the exception of " . 
the committee of them finances nationales not regarde not necessarily all levels programs . 
he tente of And them Estimates for the administration Public fédérale streets series perspective of political administrative mostly , the sorte that the mandate not can not perhaps restreint . 
what is streets what sense that the senator Murray voudrait argumenter . 
he rereads has series tradition who faces explique since long . 
he rereads has much of wisdom streets confirms . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , there has he a desire to ajourner Act motion principale at Act next postponement ? 
the senator Bolduc : 
honourable senators , I request the adjournment of the debate . 
the Honourable Senator Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I think that he convient of allegiances Act motion at them Senators . 
i ai listened fell confirms the senator Bolduc . 
when what standpoint of the Order of the day has been appelé , I ai said that , at mon notice , unabated question pouvait perhaps réglée enough fingertips fell procédant commentator we the awakened fact . 
bye the future , he remembered can that what authorized a little more difficult . 
i think that we devons we montrer accommodants with the Department of them Finance nationales and what is series way of the make . 
if the committee of them fisheries examine them Estimates liées at the Department of them Fisheries and the foreign Oceans , confirms répondrait also at Act request for the senator Robichaud without that confirms crée of interférence with what that demand the senator Murray . 
confirms not wants not say that til paving always procéder analyzed , but yeas the instant , what is series good solution , streets them circumstances . 
we devrions allegiances Act motion at them Senators . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe 
the Organization yeas Act security and health cooperation fell Europe ? Position eighth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary tenue at Saint - Petersbourg , fell Russia - Interpellation 
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein , rose rose avisle 30 November 1999 : 
that he attirera the attention of the Senate Act the report of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe at Act eighth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization yeas Act security and health cooperation fell Europe ( OSCE PA ) , tenue at Saint - Petersbourg ( Russia ) the Government 6 au10 July 1999 . 
Robbie that we approchons of the nouveau millennium , perhaps - til mesurer of way equitable briefly and the way concise Act policy étrangère at the surveillance of the last century ? 
breaching is the objective of health policy étrangère ? 
he remembered notional of make the Government world a place more course and more peaceful where vivre . 
pourtant , health War has dominé Act policy étrangère . 
our century ago began Act series telle particulars of espoir . 
he rereads a100 years , fell 1899 , the tsar Nicholas II of Russia has , at partir of Saint - Petersbourg , lancé a Appeal at Act community international yeas the établissement of series convention Refer at limiting them weapons at the level international and at create a nouveau court international chargé of régler them différends between them States by arbitrage consensuel . 
he espérait that confirms apporterait Act peace at the surveillance of what nouveau century , after the XIXe century who Partnerships been marqué by Act War and who Partnerships entraîné Act death of 16 million for persons . 
more later unabated year - là , fell 1899 , based them pressure of the tsar , series conference international has been convoquée at Position Haye . 
fell fact , unabated conference historic has licences of établir of them limits internationales Act them weapons and the bannir more particularly them bombes strikes , analyzed that the établir a court international yeas arbitrer them différends between them States of way consensuelle . 
unfortunately , unless the genus year later later , fell 1900 , what message of espoir has been ignoré . 
health course at Act supremacy military has débuté . 
health construction of cuirassés , the thanking by the Germany and ensuite by the England , has accéléré Act course at them armements navals . 
the déclenchement of disorders streets them Balkans has conduit at them guerres of them Balkans fell 1912 and 1914 and has conduit ensuite at the famous massacre of them Arméniens . 
he rereads has also strokes ensuite Act Première Guerre World and series nouvelle expression streets the lexique of health death : War World . 
fell 1917 , health Révolution Russian has éclaté . 
Robbie that 1918 marquait Act end of health Première Guerre World , health War between Act Russia and health Poland has éclaté and Oceans disorders fell Ireland apply are aggravés . 
a nouveau word of espoir has been added at the lexique of health death after Act Première Guerre World by the chairman Woodrow Wilson : the autodétermination . 
during what time , the agitation fell China apply is développée , conduisant at Act War civile durant them years 30 and 40 . 
fell URSS , streets them years 30 , tandis that foreign camarades communistes and the other streets the world regardaient , business épurations massives of millions of persons apply déroulaient afin of maintain the monopoly of the power to the party bolchevique . 
imitant the communisme , the nazisme and the fascisme étalaient their bannières sanglantes who animaient the occupation éthiopienne fell Africa . 
with the assistance to the Canada , health Corporation - Provincial Nations has faibli and apply is enlisée . 
puis he rereads eut Act War of Spain and the conflict of the communisme and the Government fascisme , conduisant at Act Second Guerre World , the thanking fell Europe , puis fell Asia . 
we ourselves souvenons of the holocauste . 
he remains series something inimaginable . 
we ourselves souvenons of the horreur of Hiroshima and the Nagasaki . 
fell 1945 , health planet semblait épuisée by the horreur of health War , but he not there has not strokes of pause streets them massacres . 
streets lesannées 40 , the foreign révolutions acclaimed been déclenchées fell Asia - Government East , fell Africa and fell America of the South . 
these years acclaimed seen naître of them guerres without end at the Middle - Middle . 
transport years 50 we acclaimed apporté Act War of Korea and the accélération of health War of Indochine . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
senator Grafstein , I am désolé of you interrupt , but he is 18 hours . 
that souhaitent them honourable senators ? 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
i move that His Honour not regarde not the hour . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
is - what the agreement , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Grafstein : 
bye Act end of them years 50 , we awakened been witnesses from rBST revolution cubaine , brillamment suivie by Act revolution culturelle chinoise , health War of the Vietnam , business massacres at the Cambodge and Oceans guerres fell Angola . 
bye the surveillance of them years 60 , the Ireland apply is the nouveau enflammée , après8 decades of war . 
transport years 70 acclaimed seen surgir at the moins37 conflits importants a little everywhere at the world . 
puis are arrivées them years 80 with Act War between the Iran and the Irak at the surveillance of laquelle , fell passant , more of a million for people acclaimed been killed , there including the foreign children soldiers . 
more of people acclaimed been killed at the surveillance of unabated War that streets toutes them guerres who acclaimed strokes instead at the Middle - Middle since the beginning of the century , and foremost confirms yeas few kilometres of sable . 
transport years 80 acclaimed been celles of health War fell Afghanistan , the foreign guerres tribales fell Somalia , the Government invasion of the Koweït by the Irak who has mené at Act War of the Koweït , the foreign guerres tribales at the Rwanda , at the Nigeria , the term of the Congo and at the Soudan and the Government early of health War civile fell Indonesia , at the Timor oriental analyzed that fell America of the South and fell America centrale . 
honourable senators , unabated interminable list of guerres is loin of Welfare exhaustive . 
however , he rereads has the Government espoir : the empire Soviet apply is désintégré . 
puis them magnifiques years 90 , health dernière decade is arrival , at Act subsequently of health chute of the " mur " . 
the collapse of health Yugoslavia , entraîné by Act separation créée by the West of health Croatia , has mené at them guerres whose we awakened been witnesses fell Serbie , fell Bosnia and finally at the Kosovo , and with everything confirms at the impuissance of them Nations Nations . 
bye Act veille of the nouveau millennium , til calcule that he rereads has yet more of 24 guerres who Cutbacks rage at the world , mostly fell Africa , but also fell Eurasie . 
fell regardant fell footnotes , not seems he not that series good part of our vies at the surveillance of the century who faces achève has been ponctuée of brèves intermèdes between them guerres ? 
where étions - we before Act War ? 
that awakened - we done between them guerres ? 
that awakened - we done at the surveillance of health War of the Vietnam and analyzed of subsequently ? 
our ouvrages littéraires are refreshed of actions and the reactions at them various guerres . 
why Robbie devrions - we souligner the work of the OSCE and the other agencies dévoués at Act democracy by the foreign afford pacifiques , when we cannot pouvons we prevent the regarder fell footnotes Act what century marqué by Act death , everything confirms at the name of the state or the Day faith ? 
fell 1994 , Zbigniew Brezinski , ex - advisor to the Speaker Carter fell matière of democracy , has calculé that he rereads Partnerships strokes 164 million for innocentes victims and the soldiers dead at the surveillance of what century . 
i ai moi - even évalué that these violent affronts palatable wheel causé close to 200 million for dead at the surveillance of the présent century only . 
each decade ago been witness the one accroissement at the chapter of health violence technologique , the foreign tueries insensées , the foreign mutilations and the foreign destructions gratuites . 
streets what case , honourable senators , that devons - we make ? 
that pouvons - we make ? 
health condition humaine has she progressé at the surveillance of what century ? 
Tolstoï has pourtant fact of them remarques préliminaires . 
he has written that we pouvons simply espérer aménager of small clairières streets series dense forêt . 
what is what that we awakened unsuccessfully at the OSCE since the agreement on Helsinki he rereads has series trentaine of years . 
bearer agreed has remplacé the character sacré of health sovereignty of the state by the character sacré of the individu . 
streets a speech simply remarkable that he has livré recently , the Secretary General of them Nations Nations , Kofi Annan , has recognized Act culpability of the ONU and the ses States members who acclaimed adopted the foreign resolutions visant at préserver of them zones sûres , commentator the ONU the Partnerships fact fell 1995 at Srebrenica , the sorte that by Act subsequently Act community international Partnerships passivement been witness the Government massacre serbe of more of 7 40,000 victims innocentes who , croyant them paroles of health community international , run étaient avancées Subcommittee on flag bleu and white of them Nations Nations only yeas perhaps massacrées Subcommittee on oeil of them caméras of television . 
recently , we awakened examiné them resolutions of the ONU regarding the Timor oriental and préconisant heavily the independence , puis we awakened seen the ONU regarder immobile the massacre of the tiers of health population who croyait that the ONU allait exiger the respect to ses resolutions . 
transport resolutions of them Nations Nations acclaimed - thin exacerbé the terrain of abattage of the Timor oriental where most of 200 40,000 residents of what territory appauvri acclaimed been killed by Act puissance of the state of the Indonesia ? 
the imitation is the most beau compliment . 
the Action of the NATO at the Kosovo has guest Act Russia at the imiter fell Tchétchénie . 
the history fact shame . 
the number of them dead is past the five million at the XVIIIe century at 4:00 million at the XIXe century , puis at at the least 200 million at the XXe century . 
the regretté Cecil Augustus Wright , dean of health Faculty of right that I ai fréquentée , has citéM. the judge Felix Frankfurter at the opening of health Faculty of right to the University of Toronto fell 1967 . 
Seneca what that he has said : 
also fragile that is Act reason and also limité that is the right fell activist that expression of the médium institutionnalisé of health reason , what is everything what who we sépare of health tyrannie of health simple volonté and the Day cruauté of a wit débridé and indiscipliné . 
pourtant , we awakened learned that the principle of health supremacy of the right not vaut nothing apply he not is not étayé by the power . 
what is là the malheureux paradoxe of the XXe century . 
honourable senators , not devrions - we not souhaiter yeas the next millennium that royal supremacy of the right respectant the character sacré of health life devienne Act norme rather than the exception , and that she authorized étayée by Act volonté and the power to them political ? 
pourtant the optimism not rime at nothing when business States - U.S. , first super - puissance and Leader Whalers of health democracy , refusent of sign a agreed international permettant at a court international of pursue the foreign criminals of war , or a agreed to control of them armements conventionnels , or even a treaty limitant the armement nucléaire . 
what guardian of mauvais augure yeas Act peace World streets them years 90 . 
we devons we ressaisir and espérer that , yeas the next millennium , we serons fell measure of us inventer a century meilleur that gerrymandering whose we awakened inherited and that we awakened ruiné . 
honourable senators , Elie Wiesel who , before that confirms not gagne Act favour popular , has brandi Act flame of the souvenir streets what century barbare , has recently released And Chairperson Sea is Never Full , the second volume of ses mémoires . 
he we remind that , streets Act Genèse , when Adam has fui the paradis after wheel mordu streets the fruit defended , health Senators ' God apply ruckus hear : " Adam , where es - smokes ? " 
if solemn God is everywhere and that he is omniscient , why aurait - he cherché at savoir where apply trouvait Adam ? 
til we assure that God savait where apply trouvait Adam . 
dieu voulait that Adam him dise him ? same where he remembered trouvait and what that he Partnerships fact . 
where we situons - we ourselves - mêmes streets the history ? 
that awakened - we done to our lives ? 
composite of us can there respond at dapper manner . 
we devons equation fell question the work accompli by chacune of them organizations oeuvrant yeas the regulation peaceful of them différends . 
i ose espérer that royal response which we arranged donnée at the century next arranged more intéressante that celle of the présent century . 
puisse Act next generation we surpasser . 
health barre fixée yeas what century - ci not is assurément not very upper . 
there has he series truth more profonde whose we cannot tenons not account fell matière of political étrangère ? 
streets these two textes réside can - perhaps series solution at the énigme of health barbarie enfouie at the heart of health condition humaine . 
the professor Pagels fact Act light Act them origines of health démonisation of them " Other " the thanking exercée by series faith , imitée ensuite by the state séculier . 
we cannot cynicism that commencer at sonder them causes of the evil who habite streets the heart of them men and the foreign women . 
the evil is - he gravé more profondément and the manner indélébile streets the spirit of ceux who détiennent the power and who demeurent pourtant nary , inertes or , worse , indifférents at them mood of barbarie commis against the other Subcommittee their propres yeux ? 
is - what là the strange morale of the last millennium - see without agir - and the espoir yeas the next millennium - Request them paroles assorties at them mood ? 
no there has he not a paradoxe surréaliste streets what that I préconise ? 
i soutiens that royal War sème Act death and pourtant , I préconise that the snakes circulation still Act War yeas maintain Act peace , what who me amène at the aspect énigmatique of condolences propres findings yeas the XXe century . 
Sunday last , the writer validate Joseph Heller , author of Catch 22 , is décédé . 
the afternoon a critique : 
honourable senators , I me permets of citer here a court passage of the roman Catch 22 : 
" smokes veux say that he rereads has series attrape ? " 
" well course that he rereads has series attrape " , réponditDoc. 
" til not fell fate not . 
all ceux who veulent avoid the service commandé not are not really fous . " 
he not there Partnerships that series attrape and what guardian that til perdait of blunt way , at partir of the moment where apply préoccuper of dapper security fell opposite of dangers réels and immédiats is the fact of a wit rationnel . 
Orr pouvait stay at earth because that he guardian fou . 
he wouldn suffisait of the ask ; but , blocks that he the demandait , he cessait of Welfare fou and capitalists accomplir of other missions . 
Orr aurait been fou of accomplir of other missions and sensé of not not the make , but apply he guardian sain of mind , he capitalists the make . 
apply he the faisait , he guardian fou and not Partnerships not at the make ; but apply he not voulait not the make , he guardian sain of mind and he capitalists the make . 
Yossarian fut completely bouleversé by the extrême simplicité of unabated impasse and émis a sifflement admiratif . 
" what is blunt series impasse " , observa he . 
" justice more belle " , acquiesçaDoc. 
honourable senators , what is what that I puis say to better fell unabated end of century and the millennium remarkable . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
if nil another senator not widow prendre Act parole , I déclare the debate Act unabated inquiry terminé . 
the Ontario 
the Honourable Marie - P Poulin , rose rose avisle Thursday 9 December 1999 : 
that she attirera the attention of the Senate Act Act decision to the government ' s Ontario ' not not adopt series recommendation visant at make the Ottawa series city bilingue after dapper restructuring Proposed . 
the Thursday 9 December , I ai tabled a notice of inquiry . 
why the government ' s Ontario has he chosen to no not suivre Act recommendation of his aviseur , Rand Glen Shortliffe ? 
breaching message envoie til at them Canadians to our country ? 
breaching respect démontre til yeas Act Constitution of the Canada ? 
damned recognition accorde til at Act reality of them minorities linguistic of the Ontario , the Government Quebec , the foreign provinces atlantiques , the Government West and the Government Grand North ? 
breaching respect entretient - til yeas Ottawa , sits of the Parliament Heritage , the Day function Public fédérale , the foreign ambassades of the world entier ? 
honourable senators , several of between us désirons intervene Act them nombreuses questions soulevées by mon inquiry , between other senator Senator Jean - Robert Gauthier . 
honourable senators , écoutons the senator Gauthier . 
Ses40 years of commitment loyalty the principle fondamental of the respect to the history of our country and the Government uniqueness exceptionnel of our two cultures fondatrices we uncovered fort utiles streets unabated inquiry . 
between - time , I garderai condolences observations of fond yeas mon speech who mettra end at unabated inquiry , more later . 
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier : 
honourable senators , I voudrais of thanking of thanking thank the senator Poulin of dapper gentillesse and the ses bonnes paroles . 
what is a topic enough épineux and , yeas perhaps well franc , frustrant . 
fell activist that person Manitoulin at Ottawa , résidant at Ottawa and there rose lived blunt dapper life , I trouve what debate difficult . 
the 6 December last , the government ' s Ontario has presented a bill to Bill regarding health merger of municipalities streets Ottawa - Carleton and the other regions fell Ontario , yeas fell make the foreign cités uniques . 
health législation regarding health region of Ottawa - Carleton richly fell grande part Act the report deM. Glen Shortliffe , expert - council who Partnerships been appointed by Act province yeas And Act reform locale . 
his report , rendu public the 26 November 1999 , contenait of nombreuses recommendations regarding health nouvelle quoted . 
series of these recommendations proposait that royal nouvelle quoted the Ottawa , amalgamée , authorized institutionnellement bilingue . 
gold Act province , streets his bill to Bill , not has not chosen unabated recommendation faisant of health Capital of the country series city officially bilingue . 
health législation said that : " series once Act quoted organisée , she fingertips the power to decide to ses propres political linguistic " . 
streets his report Act Act restructuring , Rand Shortliffe recommends that royal quoted the Ottawa , what is his nouveau name cc , authorized bilingue . 
streets Act préface of his report , he said that royal region is series " mosaïque unique " the francophones and the anglophones streets unabated region . 
he justifie dapper recommendation fell écrivant : 
series of them questions them more importantes soulevées durant them consultations translated fut Act question of the bilingualism institutionnel . 
more of 15p. cent of health nouvelle Cité of Ottawa arranged francophone . 
Ottawa is series city unique streets unabated province and streets what country car she is Act Capital of the Canada . 
our Nation has two languages Languages , til the knows . 
the government attain works according Act Act Act them languages Languages ; the English and the French . 
health Capital national doit refléter the character of everyone the country and doit reconnaître Act presence streets dapper population of series importante minorité francophone . 
fell consequential , I quote encoreM. Shortliffe streets his report : 
i recommends that royal bill habilitante établisse and désigne Act Cité of Ottawa officially bilingue , fell French and fell English . 
i dois noter queM. Shortliffe has , the way explicite , recommended that royal nouvelle quoted authorized désignée bilingue by Act législature of the Ontario and non not by the nouveau council of health municipally of Ottawa . 
the most , Rand Shortliffe has noté that he arranged of the ressort of the haut council of health quoted the Ottawa - determine Act scope and health nature of them services which uncovered disponibles streets them two languages Languages of the country . 
he is true that , streets Act Constitution canadienne , health regulators of them governments municipal is entièrement of juridiction provinciale . 
streets the case of health region of Ottawa - Hull , he rereads has a another level of autorité établi by the government federal who faces appelle Act Commission of health Capital national , what is - at - say Act region of health Capital national . 
health law créa Act Commission of health Capital national , who succédait at Act Commission of the District federal . 
the autorité of create Act region of health Capital national has been établie by the power constitutional résiduel , authorized " Lois yeas Act peace , the Order and the bon government ' s Canada " . 
he rereads has several options disponibles permettant of corriger unabated decision to health province of the Ontario regarding the bilingualism streets Act Capital fédérale . 
transport courts pourront apply fell serve yeas clarify unabated question . 
i cannot am not lawyer , but I am certain that he rereads fingertips of them difficulties . 
transport législatures Provincial acclaimed the autorité of adopt the foreign laws regarding Casual municipalities . 
the government ' s Ontario guardian free of accept or the rejeter Act recommendation deM. Shortliffe . 
everyone of same , health récente decision to them courts of the Ontario regarding the Hôpital Monfort could serve the argumentation streets Act poursuite . 
you savez all that ladite decision to health Court divisionnaire has been scope fell Appeal and I hope that til réussira at obtain justice a day fell what who pertains them services of health fell Ontario . 
the 29 November 1999 , health Court divisionnaire of the Ontario , streets a judgment unanimous , has rejeté Act directive of health Commission Act Act restructuring of them services of health , who Partnerships ordonné Act closure of the Hôpital Montfort commentator Hospital General yeas fell make series grosse clinique . 
the court has statué that the Hôpital Montfort guardian necessary at Act préservation of health community francophone streets Act province of the Ontario . 
health cour has said that royal commission not guardian not free of ignorer the role constitutional that joue the Hôpital Montfort commentator centre really francophone necessary at Act promotion and at the development of the identity franco - ontarienne . 
health minorité francophone of the Ontario is series entité culturelle and linguistic and she has need to ses institutions which guarding dapper culture and dapper language against the assimilation . 
transport judges acclaimed affirmé that the government ' s Ontario apply doit of adhere the principle of health protection of them minorities streets all ses mood . 
they étaient of agreement yeas say that foreign francophones acclaimed a right constitutional them protégeant against the assimilation , car they Cutbacks part of series community culturelle at the Canada and are the one of them two groups linguistic whose business rights are enchâssés streets Act Constitution . 
health cour Marsden , and I quote : 
[ ... ] étant rose that the principle of health protection of them minorities - notamment Act protection of health minorité francophone - is a principle independent who Subcommittee - underlies Act Constitution and who has a effect contraignant Act them governments , health cour doit intervene , when he rereads has instead , yeas ensure series protection against foreign measures Change who submariners at the encontre of what principle . 
some considèrent Act decision rendue streets the case of the Hôpital Montfort commentator a example unacceptable of militantisme judicial . 
the National Post has élaboré at what topic . 
if you êtes intéressés , allez - including , but not you choquez not . 
by against , the other estiment that she offers can - perhaps series weapon puissante yeas Act protection of them rights of them minorities . 
health decision apply inspirait widely of them two judgments that royal Court Supreme of the Canada has rendus recently the one , streets the affair of the Renvoi Act Act sécession of the Quebec and the another streets the affair Beaulac , judgments streets lesquels she has maintenu the right to a man of health British - British at a procès bilingue . 
we apprenions yesterday that royal Commission of restructuring of them services of health demandait the Authorized to interjeter Appeal of health decision rendue by Act Court divisionnaire at the topic of the Hôpital Montfort . 
the government has déclaré that he appuyait without contingency bearer Appeal . 
even if series Action fell justice not réussissait not at obliger the government ' s Ontario at désigner Act nouvelle city of Ottawa commentator officially bilingue , she could serve at the foreign purposes of political Public . 
she aurait certainly yeas effect of better make connaître Act question . 
if she capitalists retarder the regroupement of them municipalities régionales , the foreign pressure apply exerceraient Act the government dd ; by against , she risk of provoquer the Opposition and the ressentiment of ceux who tiennent at régler series once yeas toutes Act question of the regroupement . 
the Senate has yeas objet of represent them regions of the country and mostly of protect them minorities . 
series motion could perhaps déposée at the Senate demandant at the government ' s Ontario ' désigner Act nouvelle city of Ottawa commentator officially bilingue . 
bye bearer regard , he is at noter that the Assembly national of the Quebec has passed series motion similar . 
the Parliament federal can not not vouloir apply mêler of series affair clearly provinciale ; by against , the government ' s Ontario not torn not at apply mêler of them Affairs fédérales fell matière fiscale . 
he we done to them recommendations quasiment at all levels days yeas baisser them taxes . 
if what not is not to the ingérence provinciale , I cannot know not what that what is . 
outre that he rereads has series minorité francophone appréciable streets Act region of Ottawa , business courts reconnaissent of more fell more Act protection of them minorities commentator a principle Subcommittee - jacent of health Constitution , a principle which has series value BNA . 
the récent judgment regarding the Hôpital Montfort portait Act Act question of savoir if the post francophone capitalists perhaps remplacé by series institution bilingue . 
the bill to regroupement of health city of Ottawa , by against , not pertains that royal question of the bilingualism . 
néanmoins , he is significatif that certaines of them municipalities who uncovered regroupées , notamment , Vanier , Gloucester and Cumberland , laughed series population francophone appréciable analyzed that series attest tradition of bilingualism cc . 
the lack of protection of these communities streets Act nouvelle city raises the foreign questions semblables at celles that soulevait the affair of the Hôpital Montfort . 
til could always laisser Act nouvelle city of Ottawa decide whether she souhaite perhaps déclaré officially bilingue . 
she could choose to no not the make or revert more later Act dapper decision . 
yeas more of sûreté , he vaudrait better than Act bill provinciale habilitante traite of health issue . 
health issue of the bilingualism can perhaps very controversée , commentator streets the case of the affair David Levine and celle of the Hôpital Montfort . 
he serait more responsible for health share of the government ' s Ontario ' make Evidence of leadership fell décidant of désigner blocks the departure Act city regroupée commentator officially bilingue . 
the report deM. Shortliffe is soigneusement rédigé and intégré . 
commentator he the déclare , the character francophone and anglophone of health region fact part of dapper mosaïque unique . 
the government ' s Ontario should allegiances fell implementation unabated importante recommendation . 
streets Act decision that she has rendue streets the affair Monro , fell 1966 , health Court Supreme of the Canada établit clearly the power to the government federal Act Act region of health Capital national . 
what is là something something which should or who already distingue Ottawa - ses environs and the foreign other regions of the Ontario . 
health Court Superior of the Ontario has the most reminded them four principles which underlies - tendent our Constitution : Act democracy , the Evolution , the constitutionnalisme and health protection of them minorities , particularly Act minorité francophone . 
these principles acclaimed been établis by Act Court Supreme of the Canada streets them causes énumérées précédemment , the Renvoi of health sécession of the Quebec and the affair Beaulac . 
health Position of the government fell Ontario seems vouloir laisser at Act city of Ottawa dapper désignation of city officially bilingue . 
he is possible that unabated procedure découle of two reasons : the refusal of the government dd of Welfare perçu commentator pro - francophone and , deuxièmement , his desire to no not ouvrir Act door at the bilingualism cc of the Ontario , tel that décrit streets Act Constitution of the country at the article 133 . 
fell conclusion , honourable senators , I insiste yeas say that royal city of Ottawa is unique . 
she is Act Capital national of a country officially bilingue . 
if she doit stay Act Capital national , I dis well if , and continue to jouir of them benefits reliés at what status , she should perhaps officially bilingue . 
fell more of his role of Capital national , health city of Ottawa is située at Act border of the Quebec and the Government Ontario . 
she has series history and series culture francophones riches and account series minorité francophone appréciable . 
bye series époque of tension croissante regarding health Confederation and health sécession of the Quebec , health issue of health nature bilingue of health Capital national revêt series importance symbolique . 
outre that he rereads has series minorité francophone appréciable streets Act region of Ottawa , business courts reconnaissent of more fell more Act protection of them minorities commentator a principle Subcommittee - jacent of health Constitution and series value BNA . 
the Globe Mail Mail not has not been also généreux loyalty Act question of the Hôpital Monfort . 
the future is at ceux who luttent . 
what is Act devise of the newspaper Le Droit , our quotidien francophone fell Ontario . 
what is what that we ferons . 
the Honourable Serge Joyal : 
outre that she abolit of a trait of pen the outcome of several years of lutte and that analyzed , she fragilise at nouveau Act community minoritaire franco - ontarienne , she heurte of front Act conception fondamentale , the ideal that we ourselves impotent fact of what country where , streets dapper Capital national , ses two grandes communaut linguistic fondatrices arresting vivre streets the harmonie , run développer and apply enrichir at the contact the genus of the another . 
transport governments precedents of them honourable John Robarts , Bill Davis , David Peterson and Bob Rae not auraient not been also insensibles . 
the government Harris not apply fell is not rendu account , but he attack the idea canadienne streets ses fondements mêmes . 
he rereads has streets what geste series dénégation of our aspirations , series ignorance inquiétante of them efforts of ceux and celles who we acclaimed précédés , and series sorte of repli Act them préjugés and the indifference which , croyions - we , specialist disparu chez them leaders who we gouvernent . 
Ottawa not is not series city commentator them other . 
what is Act principale assise of health Capital of the Canada . 
the government and the Parliament of the Canada opèrent streets them two languages Languages of the country . 
health Constitution canadienne there pourvoit and health Court Supreme of the Canada ' has éloquemment démontré streets his v. of the 20 August 1998 Act Act sécession of the Quebec . 
bearer v. is fondamental yeas understand them principles which we régissent and who are at Act basic of our lives democratic . 
these principles , rappelons - Government , are at the number of four : the Evolution , health democracy , the constitutionnalisme and health rule of right , and finally , and non the moindre , health protection of them rights of them minorities . 
what is based what last principle , " justice protection of them rights of them minorities " , that I voudrais attirer your attention . 
honourable senators , I am the notice that royal decision to the government ontarien of Abolish them laws antérieures of health city of Ottawa and the Vanier , who their reconnaissaient the status of city " bilingue " yeas them substitute by series another act where unabated protection is disparue , is , at mon notice , anticonstitutionnelle and contrary at the principle fondamental of protection of them rights of them minorities linguistic reconnus by Act Court Supreme of the Canada streets his v. of the 20 August 1998 . 
how pouvons - we demeurer passifs appeared Act man9uvre who BNA at Abolish the status bilingue of two cities , Ottawa and Vanier , yeas them fondre streets a grandfather everything fusionné , ignorant systematically the impact that series telle initiative fingertips Act them rights of health community minoritaire of language official ? 
comprenez well the precedent ; he suffit of procéder by the mechanism of them grandes fusions yeas make fi of 132 years of lutte . 
til the has seen recently streets the example of the Hôpital Montfort . 
he has suffi of vouloir Act fusionner with three other hospitals of health region of Ottawa - Carleton yeas Act make disparaître of a trait of pen . 
health Court Superior of the Ontario has recently , the 29 November last , streets a judgment unanimous of three judges , cassé unabated decision at the motif that she guardian purport , because that contrary at Act protection of them rights of health minorité franco - ontarienne . 
permettez - moi of remind them elements essentiels of the judgment of health Court of the Ontario streets unabated affair . 
health cour has the thanking recognized that the Hôpital Monfort jouait a role which desservait widely Act region of Ottawa - Carleton yeas apply étendre at Act province entière . 
she has the most underlined that royal community franco - ontarienne capitalists lutter constamment against foreign forces of assimilation yeas power survivre . 
health cour has added , and I quote : 
bearer extrait consigned at Act page 6 of the judgment . 
yeas survivre , these communaut linguistic repositories power apply appuyer Act a network of institutions which supportent their development and limitent them forces of assimilation . 
i quote : 
the character francophone of their institutions is therefore became the most fell more important yeas remplir the role which BNA at préserver and at protect unabated culture . 
what passage is tiré of health page 7 to the judgment . 
analyzed , these institutions repositories ceased streets series gamme of sphères of activity payroll also vast that possible yeas permettre at Act community minoritaire of apply développer and the maintain dapper vitality . 
transport institutions are also the foreign symbols importants yeas Act community franco - ontarienne . 
thin reflètent the identity of group , health presence Speaking fell Ontario and at the Canada , health reality Speaking streets Act life Public and health strength and health vitality of health community . 
bearer extrait apply trouve at Act page 7 to the judgment . 
health cour has recognized the importance of health language Speaking yeas soutenir Act life of health community . 
health language Speaking is the élément culturel fondamental of health community franco - ontarienne . 
til trouve confirms at Act page 8 to the judgment . 
honourable senators , toutes these caractéristiques not apply appliquent - thin not when he remembered notional of health nouvelle city of Ottawa , where them francophones are more of 125 40,000 citizens and représentent more of 15p. cent of health population globale ? 
health city of Ottawa not is - she not , yeas Act more grande share , the assise territoriale of health Commission of health Capital national , she - even body bilingue ? 
how individuals francophones of the country , who séjournent streets Act Capital yeas there represent their region , réagissent - they opposite at the indifference of the government ontarien at the hook of the symbol same of health life national ? 
the foreign maires of Ottawa the specialist déja including . 
why annuler of them years of harmonie linguistic yeas forcer at nouveau them francophones at retourner Act Act barricade of them claims ? 
why susciter at nouveau them tensions political when Act peace linguistic Partnerships succeeded at apply établir streets the respect mutuel ? 
nay , health decision to the government ontarien is contrary at the spirit of our Constitution . 
she viole the commitment to respect to the equality between them two communaut , who is the touchstone same of the pacte Heritage . 
health Court Superior of the Ontario ' has well reminded : the principle of protection of them rights of them minorities , and I quote : 
... no Cutbacks not that " describe " the foreign rights . 
they infusent Act life streets our Constitution . 
well that what authorized to them principles Subcommittee - jacents and non writings of health Constitution , they palatable néanmoins make naître of them rights legal substantiels who limiteraient sensiblement the Action of the government ; fell outre , these principles are " also investis of series strength normative puissante and lient at Act once them courts and Oceans governments " . 
bye bearer regard , health cour citait the Renvoi Covenant at Act sécession of the Quebec [ 1998 , 2 R . C . S . 217 ] , pages 248 and 249 of the notice of the court . 
the Canada , has said Act Court Supreme , is series democracy BNA . 
said simply , the principle of the constitutionnalisme requiert that blunt Action of the government diminishes Act Constitution . 
til trouve confirms at Act page 8 to the judgment . 
the initiative legislative of the government ontarien , who abolit the status of city bilingue yeas Act nouvelle city of Ottawa ... 
... doit perhaps mesurée at the aune of health " protection of them minorities " , the one of them principles structurants fondamentaux of health Constitution . 
if health conduct is fautive and viole what principle , health cour of révision doit intervene ... 
confirms apply trouve at Act page 20 of the judgment . 
honourable senators , he we tangibly tirer them findings who faces imposent . 
seen that the principle of health protection of them minorities - and mostly of them minorities francophones - is a principle independent and below - jacent of health Constitution , a principle doté of series strength normative puissante who lie the government , health cour doit intervene at the need yeas protect lesdites minorities against blunt intervention of the government which paving at the encontre of what principle . 
bearer extrait apply trouve at Act page 23 of the judgment . 
transport citizens francophones of health city of Ottawa and the Vanier , and , at a another degree , ceux of them cities of Cumberland and the Gloucester perdront their right to recevoir of health nouvelle city of them services fell French . 
he fell ira of same yeas them other Canadians who séjournent at Ottawa yeas there represent their commettants , their region or their District sénatorial , commentator what is the case yeas moi - even . 
he we tangibly therefore signifier at the government ontarien that apply he refuses to reconsidérer Act législation who abolit yeas Act nouvelle city of Ottawa the status of city bilingue , series poursuite arranged congruent appeared them courts ontariens competent yeas make déclarer nulles and non avenues them provisions of the bill to Bill who aboliraient Act recognition of the French streets them statuts of health nouvelle city . 
honourable senators , he rereads has series inequity profonde at withdraw a right by subsequently of series initiative of merger who VI at noyer streets a grandfather everything series community who disposait auparavant of right protégé . 
he serait really too simple of procéder analyzed yeas contourner them principles which are at Act basic of our Order constitutional . 
what is là the ideal same who is at Act basic of the identity and the Day caractéristique of our country . 
bearer ideal not is not atteint , and he tangibly always there travailler , he not there has not to repos yeas ceux who the servent . 
we cannot pouvons permettre that the foreign politicians provinciaux , at courte standpoint , dénués of vision national , attaquent analyzed our ideal without that we réagissions with them afford that royal bill fondamentale of our country we garantit . 
no laissons not what geste devenir the symbol of health défaite of our community , incapable of tailler dapper place streets Act Capital of our country . 
honourable senators , what is ma ferme intention of me engager at what that series Action fell invalidité authorized congruent against Act bill ontarienne who refuserait of reconnaître them rights acquis of health minorité francophone of Ottawa and the all levels citizens of what country which croient profondément fell the equality of Refugee of them two languages Languages . 
Prouvons that series once that a government has recognized a bénéfice of Refugee at our community , he not can most agir of manner discriminatoire , and create at nouveau the inequality . 
he rereads has 23 years , I entamais of them poursuites against the minister of them Transport of the époque of mon own government , yeas make déclarer nul a settlement interdisant the usage of the French streets them cabines of pilotage ; he rereads has 23 years , I entamais also series poursuite against Air Canada , society of health crown , yeas the amener at apply doter of outils yeas make the Government French series language of work fell aéronautique . 
transport two actions acclaimed been accueillies favorablement by foreign courts Airports . 
he rereads has 17 years , at title of Secretary - State of the Canada , I contribuais at allegiances Act foot the program of contestation judicial yeas help them communaut minoritaires of Official Languages at make adhere their rights . 
yet today today , he faudra make Appeal at what program yeas appuyer our determination at fell garantir Act survival and the rayonnement . 
the government ontarien has decided to porter the judgment of the Hôpital Monfort fell Appeal . 
he has cru opportun of fell contester Act legitimacy . 
poursuivons Act lutte , if necessary , until fell Court Supreme of the Canada , là where our rights repositories recevoir their dernière recognition . 
i invite therefore them senators Marie - P . 
Poulin , Jean - Robert Gauthier analyzed that foreign citizens of Ottawa and the everything the Canada at recourir at them courts yeas protect their rights and ceux of all ceux who croient fell a country where the equality of the French and the Government English is a ideal of civilization and the freedom unique yeas Act dignity humaine . 
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein : 
honourable senators , I aurais few questions at poser at the senator Joyal . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
puisque the time accordé at the senator Joyal is elapsed , permettez - you at the Honourable Senator of continue at poser of them questions ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , he commence at perhaps later and some of between us acclaimed of them obligations . 
the senator Grafstein : 
honourable senators , I garderai the observation of the Opposition of the Opposition referred the spirit and I serai bref . 
health issue is importante . 
we awakened heard three senators francophones parler of what topic . 
i ai series observation and series question at introduce at the Honourable Senator . 
personally , I trouve incompréhensible that royal policy bipartite of the government ' s Ontario not ait not been the aller of the prior to fashion énergique . 
transport premiers ministers Robarts and Davis , the Government Party Conservative , the Prime Minister Peterson , the Government Party Liberal , analyzed that the Prime Minister Rae , the Government NPD , petitioners certainly irrités - and I hope that we them entendrons give their notice - appeared unabated diversion and these gamineries of the government ' s Ontario . 
i dis confirms at title of Senator of health region of Toronto . 
if the Honourable Senator paving the Government before with his Points appeared them courts , I serai happy to make front commun with him at title of Senator representative Toronto . 
he is important that the foreign senators non francophones fassent état of their insatisfaction appeared them political adoptées streets Act region that they représentent . 
health first consisterait at élargir Act Zone géographique of health Commission of health Capital national , what who , I imagine , could apply make by a bill to Bill of initiative Parliamentary presented at the Senate . 
by conséquent , he is clear that everyone the territory of health Capital national is bilingue . 
deuxièmement , has he envisagé the Points at the power to désaveu of health law provinciale whose dispose the government federal ? 
the senator Joyal : 
honourable senators , health issue that the senator Grafstein raises is series question who , fell right , is complex . 
health Commission of health Capital national not possède not Act jurisdiction him permettant of fournir of them services municipal streets of them domaines commentator ceux of them incendies , the police , the foreign facilities of loisirs , and cetera . 
according Act Commission of health Capital national , business provisions of planifications urbaines admits of other responsibilities , particularly fell report with Act presence of the government federal . 
i parle here to them services of directors and other who , until at a certain standpoint , recoupent ceux of the administration municipale . 
even if we devions étendre them limits of health Commission of health Capital national yeas that thin regroupent the whole of the territory occupé by Act nouvelle city , business limits of health nouvelle city of Ottawa petitioners régies by Act bill commentator what is the case of health city actuelle . 
fell what who pertains the power to révocation , business honourable senators comprendront that what is series question very complex . 
health Court Supreme of the Canada has décrété that a power not can perhaps éteint activist and also long that he consigned streets Act Constitution . 
however , what is là series question Act laquelle should apply pencher the government ' s Canada if series recommendation guardian introductory at Act gouverneure General of the Canada streets what context and fell tenant account that what authority not has not been utilisé since very long . 
apply he Partnerships been utilisé , what serait streets of them circumstances exceptionnelles . 
what could perhaps là a raccourci yeas aboutir at Act solution that we souhaitons , but he existe of other methods who palatable perhaps everything also efficaces . 
he serait useful yeas all levels Canadians to toutes them provinces that series decision authorized prise streets what file . 
i takers the senator Lynch - Staunton of the another side of health House . 
he knows that North Hatley and Ayer' Maclean Cliff are fell train of fusionner streets the same context . 
however , if these cities fusionnent , North Hatley perdra the status of city bilingue that wouldn recognizes the alinéa 13 f ) the Day Act Act Act language Speaking at the Quebec . 
they veulent fusionner them services . 
something 40p. cent of health population of health nouvelle city petitioners of language anglaise , what who faces traduirait by Act loss of their status bilingue . 
unabated question revêt series telle importance that he is impossible to him apporter series solution by the biais of a power to révocation . 
he is very important streets what country that foreign rights individuels of health minorité , that she authorized to language anglaise or the language Speaking , soient garantis . 
fell of other mots , series once that these rights acclaimed been reconnus , they not arresting perhaps indirectement réduits by the foreign objectives administratifs who are sains Act the Mifflin financier but who équivalent at series destruction totale of these mêmes rights yeas Act minorité . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Fraser , the debate is adjourned . ) 
the Senate 
motion of maintien of health procedure of Assent Royal - Maintien of health motion 
bye the Appeal of health motion No. 43 : 
that the Senate to the Canada affirme Act procedure of Assent Royal at the Senate , telle that she is décrite by foreign authorities fell procedure Parliamentary Norman Wilding and Philip Laundy : " Position ceremony pratiquée at the Canada is celle who seems apply apparenter the most at the original " . 
that the Senate réaffirme the right souverain of Majesty Majesty , tel that he is énoncé streets Act Act BNA of 1867 , and who him confère Act prerogative of sanctionner them procedures parliamentarians and Oceans bills of Bill étudiés , overburdened at them Senators or adoptés streets them two Houses of the Parliament ; 
that the Senate , fell activist that House where Majesty Majesty confère Act Assent Royal , affirme his right constitutional ancestral commentator House of the Parliament where convergent them travaux of them three branches of the Parliament agissant together fell activist that Parliament of the Canada ; 
that the Senate affirme the right to the Parliament , the " lex parliamenti " , health law ancestrale who dispose that the consent royal is exigé yeas the study by the Parliament of everyone bill to Bill or blunt procedure Parliamentary who modifierait Act prerogative of Majesty Majesty ; 
that the Senate affirme that royal procedure Parliamentary at suivre by a Member yeas obtain the consent royal is the déposer at bearer effect series motion Convey adresse at Majesty Majesty , who faces distingue of them other forms of requête of consent royal auxquelles acclaimed access the Prime Minister or telecommunications ministers streets the fiscal of their responsibilities ministérielles ; 
that the Senate affirme the obligation to obtain the consent of Majesty Majesty before that authorized examined a bill to Bill who affectera Act prerogative Royal , at the example of the consent royal who has been rose by Act reine Elizabeth II at the Ballet Assent Bill of 1967 , who has been rendu at Act House of them Lords of the Kingdom - Kingdom by the Grand Chancellor Gardiner at the phase of health second reading of the bill to Bill , the 2,500 March 1967 : 
" vos Seigneuries , I am chargé by Majesty Majesty Act Queen of inform Act House that Majesty Majesty , rose been informée of the objet of the bill to Bill , consent at allegiances dapper prerogative and his interest , streets Act measure where they are affectés by the bill to Bill , at Act provision of the Parliament at them purposes of the bill to Bill No. " 
and who has been prononcé few weeks later later , the 17 April 1967 , at Act House of them Commons to the Kingdom - Kingdom by the prosecutor General Sir Elwyn Jones : 
" I am chargé by Act Queen of inform Act House that Majesty Majesty , rose been informée of the objet of the bill to Bill , consent at allegiances dapper prerogative and his interest , streets Act measure where they are affectés by the bill to Bill , at Act provision of the Parliament at them purposes of the bill to Bill No. 
i ai the honour to propose that the bill to Bill authorized now read series second once . " 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I invoque the rules . 
even if the mover of unabated motion , the senator Cools , not is not présent , if I cannot raises not unabated question now , I pourrais perhaps accused of not not the wheel soulevée blocks that I ai avoided the make . 
i move therefore that royal rule of the anticipation authorized invoquée streets the case présent . 
solemn , if unabated motion is inscrite at the Paper , health same question there figurera series second once . 
health first between fell conflict with Act seconde . 
commentator the introduces the commentaire 512 ( 1 ) the Day sixth edition of the Beauchesne : 
( 1 ) Le ban the anticiper , fell of other termes the prohibition of aborder more earlier than prévu series affair inscrite at the Paper , découle of the same principle that royal rule which interdit of raise two once Act same question at the surveillance of series session . 
i attire also your attention Act the commentaire 512 ( 2 ) . 
i invoque the rules because that I estimated that the projetde bill S - 7 is series form of procedure more efficient that royal motion of the senator Cools . 
by conséquent , the bill to Bill S - 7 should wheel préséance , and health motion of the senator not should not figurer at the Paper . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , the senator Cools not is not here présentement . 
i mover therefore at them honourable senators ' wheel the indulgence of at the least him give the opportunity to apply prononcer Act the Points at the rules of the senator Lynch - Staunton . 
i move therefore the reprendre Act discussion Act the Points at the rules tomorrow , fell presence of the Honourable Senator . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , we cannot impotent saisis of aucune motion currently . 
a notice of Motion has been rose by the Honourable Senator Cools . 
by conséquent , he not there has nothing Act whereupon I puisse tribute series decision . 
i comprends however the standpoint of standpoint that has done valoir the Honourable Senator Lynch - Staunton . 
i ai examiné Act situation , but I cannot dispel nothing make activist that we cannot serons not saisis of health motion . 
the moment venu , I serai happy to réfléchir at Act question regarding the rules . 
( the debate is reporté . ) 
( the Senate apply ajourne at the Wednesday the 15 December 1999 , at 1:30 1:30 30 . ) 
debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
2e Session , Session Session , 
volume 138 , Issue 22 
the Wednesday 15 December 1999 
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker 
table of them Contents 
STATEMENTS STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
transport légendes of the hockey 
the Team Canada 1999 
health appointment of the Lieutenant - gouverneur Lois Hole 
visitors of Gallery 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
the décret tabled pursuant at Act Act Act them transport at the Canada autorisant some carriers aériens majeurs at negotiate - Considered of the third report of the committee of them transport and the foreign Communications 
Énergie , Environment and resource Natural 
Presented of the second report of the committee 
the adjournment 
the Group Inter Canada - Japan 
depository of the report of health delegation canadienne at Act tenth rencontre bilatérale Annual with the Group of friendship Canada - Japan 
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe 
depository of the report of health delegation canadienne at Act meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization yeas Act security and health cooperation fell Europe , tenue of the 17 at the 19 November 1999 
the Association legislative Canada - China 
depository of the report of health delegation canadienne at Act second meeting Annual , tenue of the 25 at the 31 October 
the Senate 
the octroi of a status bilingue at Act city of Ottawa - Notice of Motion 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
transport finances 
transport transport 
health defence national 
the replacement of them helicopters Sea King 
health health 
the increase the foreign Estimates fell research Act the cancer of the Breast 
the Council of the Treasury 
the cabinet of the Prime Minister 
the Lieutenant - gouverneur of health Nova Scotia Nova Scotia Nomination of his XII. - Possibilité of a choice non partisan 
orders OF THE 
transport travaux of the Senate 
bill to Bill of credit No. 3 yeas 1999 - 2000 
second reading 
bill to Bill of 1999 yeas Act implementation fell implementation of conventions fiscales 
third reading - Continued of the debate 
the SENATE 
the Wednesday 15 December 1999 
health postponement is ouverte at 1:30 1:30 30 , the Speaker étant at the fauteuil . 
prayers . 
transport légendes of the hockey 
the Team Canada 1999 
the Honourable Francis William Mahovlich : 
honourable senators , I voudrais today today give ma version of the Team Canada 1999 . Il there has now 27 years that royal " Série of the century " has strokes instead , fell 1972 , when the world has ceased of tourner a instant yeas assister at Act grande victory of the Canada . 
bye unabated époque , commentator today today , he rereads Partnerships of them Subcommittee - entendus political . 
our trip Partnerships been organized primarily parM. Alexander Tikanov , who cherche at apply make élire commentator gouverneur of health region . 
Koppel . Tikanov not is not that a phenomenon policy , he détient more of médailles olympic and sportives that no regardless lequel of between us . 
mon trip Partnerships yeas but the me permettre of constater by moi - even them changes which apply are opérés at Moscou and fell Russia since 1972 , and the play series series revanche after series victory fell 1972 and series défaite fell 1974 . 
our team guardian composée of them joueurs rose atteint the Fame of health Fame Guy Lafleur , and his son , Gilbert Perreault , and his son , Marcel Dionne , Steve Shutt and Brad Park . 
transport gardiens of buts Richard Sévigny and Gaston Gingras complétaient the tableau , without forget mon son , Ted Mahovlich . 
fell summary , disons that Guy Lafleur has been remarkable lors of the Prime match , obtenant the tour of the chapeau . 
the duo father - son of Frank and Ted Mahovlich has marqué a but few minutes before Act end of health second part , and Frank has been proclamé vedette of the match ! 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the senator Mahovlich : 
the trophée arranged exposé streets mon office . 
i cannot ai not strokes Act moindre chance . 
transport entraîneurs étaient Yvan Cournoyer and Bobby Hull , all sides referred the Fame of health Fame . 
lors of health fourth part , we cannot voulions nothing laisser at the hasard and all apply étaient préparés at play the match of their lives . 
the outcome , 5 at 2 yeas we , we the devons at them son , authorized Marc - Andr Perreault , Martin Lafleur and Edward Mahovlich , who acclaimed marqué two buts . 
transport Russes étaient also représentés by the grands joueurs of unabated series of hockey of 1972 : 
unabated team has she fact impression ? 
without nil doubt , dirai - I , mostly if by " impression " you voulez parler of health way of tribute the volume and health perspective with some tons permettant these effects of light who éliminent them contours . 
some senators diraient that I parle davantage of a tableau of Monet or the Cézanne . 
what not is not true . 
unabated team rest streets Act memory of them Russes a model of behaviour , the spirit of team , the determination and the spirit sportif . 
i étais proud of make part of everyone confirms . 
transport Russes not savaient that make yeas we make plaisir . 
if Marie voulait visiter the Grand théâtre Bolchoï , the musée Pouchkine or health station of métro , we avions Olag and Stash , business gardes of the corps , at our provision . 
the trip incluait a match at Saint - Pétersbourg and series visit at the musée of the Hermitage , the palais of Winter of them tsars . 
we awakened voyagé blunt Act focuses by train and , at our arrival , we awakened visited Act nouvelle patinoire of hockey who accueillera them championnats of the world junior fell April 2000 . 
the Canada arranged well représenté . 
the responsible we took fact visiter Act patinoire and we took explained that royal piste guardian terminée at 80 per , that she serait prête yeas the 2000 2000 , that she Partnerships series ability to 12 40,000 places guarding and that she coûtait 75 million for $ . 
when I him ai asked to where venait the money , he me has answered the Day banque and the gros investors . 
what who we took mostly frappés everything at the term of the trip , what are them changes which apply are products . 
we awakened visited the Kremlin , where Eltsine venait of rencontrer Leonid Kuchma , President of the Ukraine . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
i am désolé , Senator Mahovlich , but your time to parole is elapsed . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
series extension , run he you plaît ! 
the foreign Senators : 
allez - including ! 
his Honour the Speaker : 
souhaitez - you ask Act leave of continue ? 
the senator Mahovlich : 
yes , Your Honour . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
is - what the agreement , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
continuez , I you fell prie . 
the senator Mahovlich : 
the Kremlin has been 3.25 at nine at the cost of 350 million for $ trillion and what is a Block whose health Russia can perhaps fière . 
i ai been at Washington , fell France , at Beijing and fell Australia . 
nothing not apply compare at the work which has been effectué Act them fameux toits of the Kremlin of where , at series époque , business tsars and Oceans tsarines régnaient . 
if a senator has the opportunity to apply tribute là - bas , health visit to the Kremlin apply ombudsman . 
Koppel . Pavel Boredin , the third streets Act hiérarchie , has strokes the amabilité of us explain fell detail everything what that foreign wards représentaient and their duties Subcommittee on regime Communist and below the regime of them tsars . 
the place guardian if immense that til Partnerships the sentiment that til could placer our buildings of the Parliament streets series Room , and he rereads Partnerships three wards of unabated taille . 
what is really intimidant when the chairman Eltsine has series rencontre streets series of these wards and that til not laisse that a office and two chaises and that til enlève all levels other meubles . 
transport pillars are facts of malachite and the lapis - lazuli and Oceans murs are ornés of paintings representative of them heroes historiques russes . 
he rereads has series something fell Russia who remains constante , what is Act coutume of porter a toast and the make the foreign speech . 
we awakened owed remplir of water our verres of measure at alcool after two or three vodkas yeas power suivre our hosts . 
the moment fort of the trip has been series visit at them cimetières with them épouses and Oceans son of them entraîneurs and the foreign joueurs of hockey . 
transport Russes apply rendent regularly at the cemetery yeas honorer them other joueurs , by example Alexander Kharlamov , who is death fell 1981 . 
transport pierres tombales are the foreign oeuvres deart. 
by example , he rereads Partnerships a buste of Tarasov au - dessus of series pièce of granit who guardian divisée fell two by the foreign bâtons of hockey fell Railway at the beau milieu of health pierre . 
i étais if impressionné and I ai commitments activist of photos that I ai manqué of films . 
much of Russes we acclaimed spoke of their entraîneurs and the their joueurs . 
fell activist that Captain of the team , I ai spoke of Tarasov and the our rencontre at the beginning of them years 60 , analyzed that the condolences experiences fell activist that witness the Government a result them célèbres buts of Kharlamov . 
the trip apply is terminé by series fête at the hôtel Savoy with the foreign divertissements and the foreign danses russes . 
transport two teams étaient présentes , contrairement at 1972 , where them Russes not apply are not présentés after their défaite . 
the Ambassador of the Canada , Rod Irwin , and his wife étaient also présents . 
health fumée of cigare has fini by us bother and we analyzed therefore parties fell same time that Julie . 
we devions make our bagages yeas our flight of Return the lendemain morning . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
the foreign Senators : 
health appointment of the Lieutenant - gouverneur Lois Hole 
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn : 
honourable senators , I am convaincue that foreign other honourable senators ' s Alberta apply joignent at moi yeas attirer the attention of the Senate Act the change intervenu at the station of Lieutenant - gouverneur streets our province of origin . 
laws is series wife of affairs , series auteure , series diffuseure , series activiste streets the field of the education which has occupé Act series period of 30 years various positions at the Breast of them advice of them districts scolaires of Saint - Albert and the foreign environs . 
she has generously and bénévolement soutenu of them activities at the Breast of dapper collectivité and the Day city of Edmonton , where she is very admirée yeas ses skills and his excellent sense of the humour . 
the foreign people venant of everywhere fell America of the North demandent the notice of Lois and , at the surveillance of them five dernières years , she has commitments Act parole appeared something 600 groups and businesses . 
he rereads has a 2000 and half , she has received the Ordre of the Canada and has been introductory chancelière of the University of the Alberta . 
already , she apply shows enthousiaste at Act perspective of apply acquitter of ses nouvelles responsibilities étant rose that she introduces allegiances the accent Act the importance of the education and the Government learning yeas them citizens of all levels âges . 
i him souhaite much of success and I the appuierai streets blunt Act measure of condolences afford . 
honourable senators , Lois succède at a wonderful gentilhomme , Bud Olson , a farmer of Medicine Hat who , during more of four decades , has 3.26 dapper life at the public . 
he has been MP at Act House of them Commons during 15 years and Senator of 1977 until at his accession at the station of Lieutenant - gouverneur fell 1996 . 
everyone at the term of dapper career , Bud has been recognized commentator a result them débatteurs and experts of health procedure them more qualifiés of his époque . 
he me has certes much learned during toutes them years where we awakened been friends Act Act colline of the Parliament . 
health constante streets Act career of Bud Olson , what is that he has always exprimé with passion and franchise them concerns of dapper province and , fell particular , the Day collectivité Farm . 
but au - delà of everyone confirms , he tangibly apply remind the crux patriotisme manifesté at the hook of the country and the Day cause of the unity , sentiment who the has animé also streets the most récent station that he has occupé . 
i know that all levels honourable senators apply joindront at moi yeas souhaiter Act welcome at Lois and congratulate Bud Olson . 
that God te bénisse , Bud . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the Honourable Nicholas W . Taylor : 
honourable senators , he serait virtually impossible to make better after the senator Fairbairn , but I vais everything of same add few mots . 
i souhaite at Bud Olson series retirement fell good health . 
condolences links with Bud remontent at the nombreuses years . 
Bud apply is always dévoué yeas Act policy . 
he has always been a excellent orator very fort fell logical . 
i me souviens of health campaign that he has menée fell favour of the Party of the Crédit Housing of the Canada , arpentant the south of the Alberta fell motocyclette . 
not very long after , he accédait at the station of Minister at the Breast of the cabinet Liberal and apply baladait fell limousine . 
what is yeas you say that foreign people of the south of the Alberta submariners always very vite fell affair . 
i takers that the senator Ghitter is the agreement with moi . 
i organize Lois Hole since most long that she never voudrait apply fell souvenir . 
bye the époque , commentator Act plupart of them Liberals , I ai owed quitter Calgary yeas me make élire . 
today today , when we employons the expression " without - abri " , what is yeas désigner a Liberal at Calgary . 
after wheel served together during the nombreuses years streets the sector of the education , I croyais wheel atteint a but . 
a result condolences friends recrutait of them joueurs of football chez them graduates of the secondaire fell Alberta yeas them make play fell Oklahoma . 
i the ai emmené chez them Hole , whose business two sons étaient of solides gaillards . 
health family entière is sportive , but Lois me has soutenu fell of them termes without équivoque that , well that ses son aient been fell measure of prendre their propres decisions , fell activist that parents , she and his husband souhaitaient that these young people jouent at the football at the Canada and not elsewhere . 
i the observance yeas montrer that Lois guardian véritablement Act matriarche of the clan . 
Ted and Oceans garçons acclaimed much contributed at the congruent familiale . 
laws apply intéresse of thanking and before everything at the education but she apply is also fact connaître commentator auteure . 
we serons nombreux at wheel the opportunity to health rencontrer streets them years at venir , car she is at Act once jeune and dynamic and she never manquera not to sillonner the country without v. . 
she fera a wonderful Lieutenant - gouverneur . 
health appointment of Lynda Haverstock at the station of Lieutenant - gouverneur 
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs : 
honourable senators , I cannot organize not the nouveau Lieutenant - gouverneur of the Alberta , but I tiens at him souhaiter Act meilleure of them chances . 
however , I organize Lynda Haverstock , who complements of Welfare nommée fell Saskatchewan . 
Lynda Haverstock paving certainly modify the curriculum vitae type of the Lieutenant - gouverneur . 
before the age of vingt years , she guardian already mother célibataire and Partnerships abandonné the école , but she is now devenue Dr. fell psychologie . 
she has past bon number of years at travailler with them families agricultural fell crisis , offrant of them advice at toutes sortes of niveaux . 
what is at mon notice a aspect important to what that she apportera at ses nouvelles duties of Lieutenant - gouverneur of health province of health Saskatchewan . 
Lynda apply is occupée actively of political during bon number of years . 
she guardian Opposition of the Party Liberal of health Saskatchewan at somewhat close at the same moment where I occupais what station at the Manitoba . 
commentator them Liberals not étaient not very chanceux streets these two provinces at what moment - là , he we is often arrivé of compatir together . 
i believe that the Prime Minister has done a bon choice . 
when these two women auront been assermentées , he rereads fingertips autant of women that the men who occuperont the station of Lieutenant - gouverneur at the country . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the senator Carstairs : 
he has also fact a bon choice puisque Ms Haverstock has much lutté , commentator bon number of people fell Saskatchewan , and she connaît well them problems auxquels them people of health Saskatchewan Cutbacks opposite at the hour actuelle . 
the Honourable David Tkachuk : 
honourable senators , what is the genus of them rare once where I ai something something of gentil at say at propos of them Liberals . 
commentator you the savez , the Prime Minister has appointed Ms Lynda Haverstock at the station of Lieutenant - gouverneur of health Saskatchewan . Elle complements there substitute a another grandfather Liberal , Jack Wiebe . 
Lynda apply is battue fell activist that Opposition of the Party Liberal of health Saskatchewan , but I ai much of time yeas Lynda Haverstock . 
she is yeas moi series amie . 
his husband and moi jouons at the golf also often that we the pouvons . 
what is series wife of principles . 
she tiendra ses duties with series grande dignity . 
his case we shows that foreign appointments political fonctionnent . 
health week dernière , I ai taquiné Lynda at the airport at propos of dapper appointment . 
i ai voyagé with his husband of Toronto at Saskatoon and he me has said that dapper appointment Partnerships been annoncée . 
i avais pensé that she allait devenir présentatrice of series émission - Debate téléphonique . 
commentator you the savez , she has strokes of them problems with the nouveau Opposition of the Party Liberal , Jim Melenchuk - Request them problems enough graves . 
i ai said at his husband that she could apply venger because that he is now member of the caucus of the NPD and that , when she recevrait a result ses bills of Bill who asks dapper Signing , she could the jeter at Act poubelle . 
Lynda aimerait confirms . 
after them paroles aimables of the senator Carstairs at the place to Ms Haverstock , I query me join at the senator yeas congratulate unabated dernière . 
i know that she représentera well Act province . 
dapper appointment is the genus of them rare that ait faites the Prime Minister and that I approuve entièrement . 
visitors of Gallery 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I query souhaiter Act welcome at two - our Veterans colleagues who faces trouvent streets Act gallery bearer after - afternoon , at savoir the Honourable Lorne Bonnell and the Honourable Eugene Whelan . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
the décret tabled pursuant at Act Act Act them transport at the Canada autorisant some carriers aériens majeurs at negotiate - Considered of the third report of the committee of them transport and the foreign Communications 
the Honourable Lise Bacon , patron of the committee sénatorial Standing of them transport and the foreign Communications , présente the report suivant : 
the Wednesday 15 December 1999 
the Comité sénatorial Standing of them transport and the foreign Communications has the honour to introduce his 
TROISIÈME REPORT 
your Comité , who has been authorized by the Senate le14 October 1999 at examiner , yeas fell make report , pursuant at the paragraph 47 ( 5 ) the Day Act Act them transport at the Canada , the décret tabled appeared unabated House the 14 September 1999 , autorisant some carriers aériens majeurs and certaines persons at negotiate and at conclude blunt entente conditionnelle , demand respectfully that the Comité authorized authorized at retenir them services of lawyers , the advisors techniques and the everything another staff jugé necessary . 
the budget fut presented at the Comité Standing of health Economy Internal , the foreign Budgets and the Government administration the jeudi9 December 1999 . Dans his second report on Comité of health Economy Internal has done Act recommendation that 19 900 Expenditures authorized libérés yeas unabated study . 
what report fut adopted by the Senate Committee Tuesday 14 December 1999 . 
respectfully submitted , 
health patron , 
lise BACON 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when étudierons - we what report ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Bacon , the study of the report is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement . ) 
Énergie , Environment and resource Natural 
Presented of the second report of the committee 
the Honourable Mira Spivak , patron of the committee sénatorial Standing of the energy , the Government environment and the foreign resources Natural , présente the report suivant : 
the Wednesday 15 December 1999 
the Comité sénatorial Standing of the energy , the Government environment and the foreign resources Natural has the honour to introduce his 
DEUXIÈME REPORT 
your Comité , authorized by the Senate Committee mercredi1er December 1999 at And them questions who palatable survenir occasionnellement apply rapportant at the energy , at the Environment and at them resources Natural , demand respectfully that the Comité authorized authorized at retenir them services of lawyers , the advisors techniques and the everything another staff jugé necessary , and at apply déplacer at travers the Canada and at the abroad at them purposes of his inquiry . 
the budget fut presented at the Comité Standing of health Economy Internal , the foreign Budgets and the Government administration the jeudi9 December 1999 . Dans his second report , the Comité of health Economy Internal has noté that he procède at series study of health situation budgétaire of them committees of the Senate and done Act recommendation that 6 / 12 of them fund accorded authorized libérés of here the 10 February 2000 . 
what report fut adopted by the Senate Committee Tuesday 14 December 1999 . 
respectfully submitted , 
health patron , 
MIRA SPIVAK 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when étudierons - we what report ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Spivak , the study of the report is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement . ) 
transport recommendations of health Commission Royal Act them Peoples aboriginal relatively at Act function self autochtone 
Presented of the report of the committee of them Peoples aboriginal 
the Honourable Charlie Watt , President of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Peoples aboriginal , présente the report suivant : 
the Wednesday 15 December 1999 
the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Peoples aboriginal has the honour to introduce his 
DEUXIÈME REPORT 
your Comité , who has been authorized by the Senate Committee Wednesday 24 November 1999 , at effectuer series study and at introduce a report Act them recommendations of health Commission Royal Act them Peoples aboriginal relatively at Act function self autochtone , demand respectfully that the committee authorized authorized at retenir them services of lawyers , the advisors techniques and the everything another staff jugé necessary at them purposes of his inquiry . 
the budget fut presented at the Comité Standing of health Economy Internal , the foreign Budgets and the Government administration the jeudi9 December 1999 . Dans his second report , the Comité of health Economy Internal has done Act recommendation that 14 750 Expenditures soient libérés yeas his study . 
what report fut adopted by the Senate Committee Tuesday 14 December 1999 . 
respectfully submitted , 
the chairman , 
CHARLIE WATT 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when étudierons - we what report ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Watt , the study of the report is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement . ) 
the adjournment 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate , and nonobstant the article 58 ( 1 ) i ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that at 3:15 1:30 30 today today , if the Senate not has not teminé ses travaux , the Speaker interrompe them deliberations yeas ajourner the Senate ; 
that , if a vote is différé at 5:30 1:30 30 today today , the Speaker interrompe them deliberations at 3:15 1:30 30 yeas suspend Act postponement until at 5:30 1:30 30 yeas Act implementation at them Senators ' s vote différé ; and 
that all levels points figurant at the Ordre of the day and at the Paper - Provincial Notice , who never acclaimed not been abordés , demeurent streets their Order Present . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
the Group Inter Canada - Japan 
depository of the report of health delegation canadienne at Act tenth rencontre bilatérale Annual with the Group of friendship Canada - Japan 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to déposer the report of health delegation canadienne at Act tenth rencontre bilatérale Annual between the Group Inter Canada - Japan and the Group of friendship Canada - Japan , who faces is tenue at Tokyo and at Hiroshima analyzed that streets the island of Shikoku , at the Japan , the Government 6 at the 13 November 1999 . 
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe 
depository of the report of health delegation canadienne at Act meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization yeas Act security and health cooperation fell Europe , tenue of the 17 at the 19 November 1999 
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to déposer , streets them two languages Languages , the report of health delegation canadienne of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe ( OSCE ) at Act meeting of the office élargi of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization yeas Act security and health cooperation fell Europe and at the Sommet of the OSCE who faces are referendums at Istanbul , fell Turquie , the Government 17 at the 19 November 1999 . 
the Association legislative Canada - China 
depository of the report of health delegation canadienne at Act second meeting Annual , tenue of the 25 at the 31 October 
the Honourable Jack Austin : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to déposer , streets them two languages Languages , the third report of the Association legislative Canada - China regarding health second meeting bilatérale who faces is tenue at Ottawa , Toronto , Winnipeg and Victoria , at the Canada , the Government 25 au31 October 1999 . 
the Senate 
the octroi of a status bilingue at Act city of Ottawa - Notice of Motion 
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that tomorrow , the 16 December , I proposerai that royal city of Ottawa , Capital of the Canada , should perhaps officially bilingue . 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
he we fell has révélé Act seams . 
confirms not me paraît however not suffisant . 
we awakened need that he dépose dapper motion . 
the senator Gauthier : 
honourable senators , I am disposé at déposer Act motion fell question . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I am the notice that he rereads has only a problem of communication . 
commentator til the knows , the Honourable Senator not entend not very well , the sorte that he could there wheel a problem . 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
why not convenons - we not to revert at them notice of Motion ? 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
i accepte that we revenions at them notice of Motion more later today today , when the senator Gauthier rereads déposer the notice of Motion according them rules . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
is - what the agreement , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the Honourable Anne C . Cools : 
honourable senators , at the moment where the senator Hays demandait Act leave of revert more later yeas that the senator Gauthier présente his opinion of Motion , what last guardian already disposé at the make . 
the senator Hays : 
the agreement . 
the senator Gauthier : 
honourable senators , run he rereads has confusion , what is perhaps - perhaps because that , at cause of ma surdité , I dois lire Act mon ordinateur portable appeared moi what that foreign honourable senators viennent of say . 
however , I ai well series motion and I vais Act equation at the page yeas that he Act door at the Bureau . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
he not arranged not necessary to revert more later at them notice of Motion , the agreement ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
transport finances 
transport limits of the mandate of them members of the Office of investment of the Régime of Pension Plan the Canada 
the Honourable David Tkachuk : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government and door Act the Régime of Pension Plan the Canada and Oceans recommendations of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Banking and the Government trade . 
bye the beginning of 1988 , the committee of them Banking has sparked series study exhaustive of the Office of investment of the Régime of Pension Plan the Canada . 
i ai been happy to constater that the government federal and Oceans provinces approuvaient at the least series of our recommendations , who visait at limiting the number of mandats that pouvait remplir a administrateur . 
streets dapper response to September 1998 at the report of our committee , the minister has déclaré that the Imposition of series limite exigerait of them changes legislatures . 
if them honourable senators apply rappellent the debate tenu at the époque , he guardian incroyablement urgent that the bill to Bill Act the Office of investment of the Régime of Pension Plan the Canada authorized adopted . 
the minister Tisserant that foreign changes not pouvaient not perhaps Location because that he particulars modify Act bill . 
now that the minister of them Finance has answered at unabated part of the bill to Bill and that he has said that the government fixerait series durée limitée yeas the mandate of them directors , we cannot voyons aucune allusion at the bill to Bill streets the announcement of health week dernière . 
transport officials that we awakened contactés not étaient at the courant of nil plan visant at introduce a bill to Bill renfermant them measures annoncées Act week dernière . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I cannot ai knowledge of nil bill to Bill rose been presented by the minister of them Finance until at now . 
he remembered can that he choisisse of the make more later , but I cannot ai knowledge of another bill to Bill fell what moment . 
understandings at Act seams of the raisonnement avancé fell 1998 , I the ignore . 
i puis however tenter of communiquer Act question at the minister and revert with series response fell time voulu . 
the senator Tkachuk : 
the Leader can - he remembered engager at fournir series response écrite expliquant why he not there has not to Bill of Bill and why the minister of them Finance has said , fell September 1998 , that he fell particulars a ? 
what is important because that we awakened cru the minister , and what is why number of members of the committee acclaimed conçu the idea of annexer series letter at the bill to Bill rather of adopt the amendment directly at the committee . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I vais try to confirm at the senator if the government has the intent of introduce a bill to Bill No. 
transport transport 
health restructuring of the industry to them transport aériens - Ex effect of the monopoly of Air Canada 
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver : 
honourable senators , I ai series question at poser at the Leader of the government at the Senate at the topic of the transportation . 
transport senators savent that the committee sénatorial of them transport ago fact series excellente analysis of health decision to the minister of them Transport of suspend the application of the article 47 of health Act Act Act competition , what who has licences at Act society Onex of propose series importante restructuring of the sector of them transport aériens . 
the committee has constaté that aucune reason not justifiait that the minister suspende the application of unabated provision . 
i me request , yeas commencer , if the Leader of the government has series explanation . 
what are toutes of them questions importantes . 
health week dernière , I ai posé of them questions at the minister at the topic of the increase the foreign tarifs of Air Canada , and til we said now that Air Canada trafique them points of his program yeas grands travellers . 
the Leader can - he we give the EI that foreign Canadians not uncovered not broyés by the monopoly of Air Canada ? 
who défend them rights of them consumers streets unabated restructuring ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , fell what who pertains Act protection of the consommateur Heritage , if a odyssey transporteur dominait the market , we appliquerions them principles that the minister has énoncés and that I ai répétés here at few occasions . 
streets them circumstances actuelles , the transporteur dominant devra apply conformer at the foreign rules claires . 
the senator Oliver : 
if the Parliament apply ajourne until fell February , who paving apply preoccupation of the file if them tarifs continuent at augmenter and if til continues at modify the system of points ? 
who paving protect them consumers at bearer regard ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
transport agencies réglementaires fell place submariners continue at apply acquitter of their mandate . 
the most , the commitment to the minister of them Transport has been release at Air Canada streets them termes them more fermes . 
i ai fully confidence that foreign consumers uncovered protected . 
the Honourable Consiglio Di Nino : 
i me request if the minister could we say apply he rereads has the Government nouveau at the topic of health statement of the minister according laquelle them carriers étrangers petitioners autorisés at opérer at the Canada , particularly streets the field of the cabotage . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I cannot ai nothing at add at what topic yeas the moment . 
i me attends at what that the minister présente Subcommittee little a train of measures . 
i am course that thin uncovered conformes at them principles which acclaimed been énoncés at several occasions at the name of the government . 
these principles garantissent that foreign consumers are protected . 
the senator Di Nino : 
the minister could - he obtain yeas we series response Act Act question of the cabotage of here at what that the Senate reprenne ses travaux the 2000 next ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I ferai share of them composition of the senator and I transmettrai dapper request for information . 
he reviendra at the minister of decide apply he wants traiter séparément and fell public of series part of them measures or apply he wants propose an together to measures commentator a everything . 
health defence national 
the replacement of them helicopters Sea King 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , étant rose them incidents rapportés streets them newspapers these derniers months and notamment Act headline of health Presse canadienne of today today according laquelle he rereads aurait strokes at the least 10 ou12 incidents where the foreign doors , the foreign pièces plates , the foreign pièces of rotor and the other pièces petitioners tombées of them helicopters Sea King , the government think he at the staff who doit voyager streets these helicopters ? 
i me request what that royal population of Halifax - western Nova where the Leader of the government at the Senate voudra can - perhaps apply introduce lors of them prochaines election fédérales - think when business Sea King survolent their maisons . 
fell dépit of them notes of information on the minister of health Défense , who disent that he faudra eight years yeas complements the program of replacement of them helicopters submarines , the minister him ? same affirme that he can mener at well a tel program fell five years . 
i accepte what giveaway , but certaines conditions entrent fell stake and I query wheel them commentaires of the minister . 
i ai fact much of research Act Act question and I ai spoke at much of people who savent exactly damned is Act situation . 
if the government notional before Act end of the month , til me said that he serait possible for finishing fell 2005 . 
the government ferra he what that he tangibly before Act end of the year ? 
introduces - he prendre them measures nécessaires before Act end of December of unabated year ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I ai read bearer section streets the newspaper and I avais prévu that royal question serait posée . 
i ai read carefully bearer section and I fell ai apporté copy with moi . 
the senator has everything at fact reason for say that series series of incidents are survenus streets the past and that we fell entendrons certainly still parler . 
however , unabated series of incidents confirms that these helicopters are vieux and achèvent their lives useful . 
i ai noté that Colin Curleigh , a brigadier General at Act retirement and a man very respecté streets them cercles military of Halifax , guardian quoted streets bearer section . 
Koppel . Curleigh has confirmed that , at his opinion , he serait possible for yielding remplacé them Sea King fell 2005 . 
he not has not added that he particulars that foreign appropriation soient dégagés before Christmas , the Government less not streets bearer section . 
however , he has affirmé that the replacement could perhaps terminé fell 2005 . 
i ai been happy to hear a expert of them questions military commentator the brigadier General Curleigh confirm the information that I ai obtenue of other sources and according laquelle Act fiabilité of them appareils the préoccupait , by Opposition referred Act security of them persons . 
he tangibly say , fell blunt justice loyalty the senator , that the brigadier - General has added that the bill could perhaps mené at well fell 2005 , but that he particulars yeas confirms series enormous volonté policy . 
i guess that he guardian probably at the courant of the fact that the minister of health Défense national has done to unabated question dapper first priority . 
i ai bon espoir that he remembered notional là of the kind of commitment necessary yeas make progresser the program . 
the senator Forrestall : 
honourable senators , he rereads has series another condition who paving the pair with the Mifflin Plan implementation fell implementation . 
i diminishes énormément the brigadier - General Curleigh that I organize , commentator the minister apply fell doubt , since 25 or 30 years . 
i am streets them parages since long . 
i ai connu the brigadier - General Curleigh when he guardian Officer subalterne . 
health issue of health volonté policy has been abordée . 
if we voulons amorcer the process , we devons make series rationalisation afin of wheel a choice . 
impotent - we disposés at make the sacrifice of them benefits industriels regional who could perhaps necessary yeas achieve bearer objective ? 
what is series question extremely importante . 
when we parlons of security , we parlons of fiabilité . 
a accessoire of armement is tombé of a Sea King fell plein flight , at Shearwater . 
a panneau of drives is tombé of a apparatus Sea King the 29 August , and the snakes not apply fell is aperçu that at the surveillance of series inspection after the atterrissage . 
a another Sea King has lost a panneau différent at the surveillance of a flight between Thunder Bay and Kenora . 
series balise of rescue apply is détachée by inadvertance of a modulateur , the 24 September , at the surveillance of a flight au - dessus of health part centrale of the Maine . 
he rereads fingertips series War with them Americans , if we cannot cynicism not attention . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , the standpoint that the senator raises regarding Casual acquisitions illustre well Act complexité of the process . 
what is always , potentiellement , series series of compromise . 
tangibly - he sacrifier Act skating yeas wheel Act possibility of purchase at the intérieur of the Canada ? 
what are là of them questions auxquelles the minister of health Défense national doit peser lors of each acquisition of equipment military . 
i cannot ai not Act jurisdiction requise yeas mesurer them various factors at partir of them data that I possède , but I am convaincu that the minister prend of telles decisions couramment yeas not regardless breaching achat . 
he the ferait certainly streets the case of series acquisition also importante that the replacement of them Sea King . 
the senator Forrestall : 
honourable senators , nothing not arranged fact before Act end of health présente year , what who signifie that , streets five years , we cannot aurons not yet what equipment if gravement necessary . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I prie the senator ' not not tirer series telle conclusion . 
i remains optimiste . 
i me am entretenu with the minister of health Défense national . 
he me has done share of ses priorities who , I the hope , run transformeront fell Action . 
health health 
the increase the foreign Estimates fell research Act the cancer of the Breast 
the Honourable Marjory LeBreton : 
honourable senators , puisque we parlons of volonté policy , health week dernière , til has avoided lire streets The Ottawa Citizen that series proposal présentée at the government voulant that he hausse at 235 million for $ them Estimates consacrées at Act research and at the treatment of the cancer of the Breast has been rejetée , even if composite knows that what is Act form Act more courante of cancer chez Act wife . 
the same , streets the book red of 1997 , he is written clearly that the cancer of the Breast fact part of them summarizing problems fell matière of health . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate may - he we say when the government paving prendre at heart unabated grave illness and agir at what topic ? 
the government has dépensé a 1.1 of $ yeas régler the contract of the airport Pearson and 764 million for $ yeas régler them contracts after the cancellation of health commande of them helicopters 101 - 101 he rereads has six years . 
account tenu of these Estimates , how the government can - he justify the refusal of a amount of 235 million for $ Act five years yeas help them women atteintes of cancer of the Breast ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , the government prend very at the sérieux them efforts déployés yeas combattre unabated illness and soulager them persons who fell souffrent . 
i cannot am not really at the courant of health request at laquelle the senator has done allusion . 
fell fact , I am a little confus understandings at Act nature exacte of health request , at savoir apply he remembered agissait of health Benefit directe of services médicaux financés by the government federal or apply he rereads Partnerships series certaine participation of health share of them departments provinciaux of health Health . 
unfortunately , I cannot ai not these information appeared moi and I am therefore incapable of give series response complète at the senator . 
the senator LeBreton : 
he has been much question of unabated affair streets them media . 
i ai seen something something at what topic streets The Ottawa Citizen . 
a ami at moi me has said that he Partnerships read a section Act unabated affair streets the Sun of Vancouver . 
the government has rejeté of the revers of health main series suggestion venant of a result them members of his own caucus , who faces trouve at perhaps doctor and who comprend certainly Act gravité of unabated illness . 
pourtant , the government not apply is not gêné yeas gaspiller 1,764 1.1 of $ yeas annuler of them contracts . 
how the government can - he justify confirms at them women who souffrent of the cancer of the Breast and at their families ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I am a little désavantagé here because that I cannot organize not them details of health proposal . 
apply agissait - he ' travaux of research ? 
apply agissait - he ' health Benefit directe of services médicaux ? 
the senator LeBreton : 
he remembered agissait of travaux of research . 
the senator Boudreau : 
apply he remembered agissait of health Benefit directe of services médicaux , fell activist that former minister dd of health Health , I cannot know really not how confirms could fonctionner . 
apply he remembered agissait of travaux of research , I comprends . 
i observance also at the senator ' nouveau program majeur of research fell health who has been announced and who is financé by the government . 
health proposal regarding Casual Instituts Airports of research fell health represents series initiative without precedent streets our country fell what who pertains Act research fell health . 
til could penser that the cancer of the Breast rereads aisément perhaps inclus streets unabated initiative distraught . 
the Council of the Treasury 
the increase the Day Prestation national yeas children - Ex devancement of health date 
the Honourable Erminie J . Cohen : 
honourable senators , we apprenions streets the speech of the Trône that royal Prestation national yeas children allait augmenter at partir of 2002 . 
according to them information which acclaimed fact the objet of series fuite and who acclaimed been Message at the National Post he rereads has few weeks , unabated measure coûterait approximately 650 million for $ Act first year and , series once appliquée streets his together , 23,850 million for $ each year by Act subsequently . 
health Prestation national yeas children is versée at them families poor of the Canada . 
she their fournit the assistance financière whose thin acclaimed désespérément need yeas apply procurer of health nourriture , the foreign Clothing and a housing . 
even fell tenant account the foreign Estimates incidental and the foreign factors of prudence , the government apply attend at enregistrer a surplus of 5,5 billion to $ the 2000 next . 
the government has he ' bonnes reasons of not not augmenter blocks the 2000 next Act Benefit versée at them families poor of the Canada , who palatable Robbie see Act difference streets their chèque at partir of July 2000 ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I thank the Honourable Senator yeas dapper question and yeas his appui at what program . 
the government enregistrera a surplus and we ourselves fell réjouissons all . 
the deserves fell revient essentially at the minister of them Finance . 
however , health way whose the surplus arranged redistribué arranged évaluée fell function of them various needs , who uncovered , I imagine , all very urgents and legitimate . 
i cannot know not if health suggestion of the Honourable Senator can perhaps prise fell considération , but I veillerai at Act transmettre at them persons compétentes . 
the senator Cohen : 
honourable senators , the government has succeeded at enregistrer a surplus at the détriment of them poor . 
the odyssey inconvénient of health Prestation national yeas children tient at the fact that a agreed conclu with them provinces their allows the récupérer the money analyzed versé at them assistés Cultural . 
the government can - he retarder the élargissement of what program and veiller rather at what that blunt the increase prévue authorized versée non only at them workers poor , but also at toutes them families at low income ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I dois revert Act Act suggestion non fondée according laquelle the surplus has been réalisé at the détriment of them poor . 
what surplus apply explique fell part by the dynamisme of the economy . 
our product attain gross connaît series growth without precedent . 
confirms not is not a accident , but the outcome of political solides , sensées and modérées . 
health growth economic is extremely damned . 
fell faisant Evidence of discipline Act the Mifflin budgétaire , we awakened succeeded at fell venir at the standpoint where them parliamentarians arresting discuss the foreign priorities auxquelles they veulent respond thanks at what surplus . 
what is series situation merveilleuse . 
fell what who pertains them details of health issue , I cannot répéterai not ma response initiale if what not is yeas say that foreign suggestions of the Honourable Senator uncovered transmises at the minister fell question . 
the cabinet of the Prime Minister 
the Lieutenant - gouverneur of health Nova Scotia Nova Scotia Nomination of his XII. - Possibilité of a choice non partisan 
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau : 
honourable senators , more earlier today today streets the framework of them statements of senators , we awakened strokes right at the foreign louanges and the foreign observations at the topic of the nouveau Lieutenant - gouverneur of health Saskatchewan . Cela me amène at me ask when we pouvons we await at what that the Lieutenant - gouverneur Present of health Nova Scotia Nova , who arrive at Act end of his mandate , authorized remplacé . 
the minister may - he we aviser at the avance yeas that we puissions prepare them statements who faces imposeront at the opportunity to his remplaçant ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I am soulagé . 
during a instant , I ai pensé that the Honourable Senator posait dapper candidature at what station . 
his departure serait series grande loss yeas our institution . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
there has he ' other candidates of the Senate ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
fell blunt franchise , I ignore at the fair who could perhaps appointed yeas substitute the Incumbent . 
i cannot ai not participated at the foreign discussions at what topic . 
human not me has asked who should perhaps appointed at what station . 
analyzed , étant rose that person cannot me has nothing asked , I cannot puis that supposer that royal appointment not is not imminente . 
the senator Comeau : 
honourable senators , the Leader of the government at the Senate has mentioned that I pourrais perhaps candidate . 
what could perhaps series good idea . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the senator Comeau : 
account tenu of health nouvelle orientation that the Prime Minister of health Nova Scotia Nova , the honorableM. Hamm , has prise yeas try to reduce the number of appointments partisanes fell Nova Scotia Nova , the minister fera he savoir or promettra he that the Prime Minister federal demandera at the Prime Minister and at them Members provinciaux of make the unabated appointment the genus of them premières appointments non partisanes at the Canada ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , if the snakes donnait subsequently at Act proposal of the senator , I me request if what serait well the genus of them premières appointments non partisanes faites at the Canada by a prime minister , toutes affiliations political confondues . 
i cannot fais that émettre of them assumptions Act the meaning of health issue . 
we pouvons perhaps assurés that the Prime Minister choisira , yeas perhaps the nouveau Lieutenant - gouverneur of health Nova Scotia Nova , series human of series grande quality and the genus grande integrity . 
i am course that what are là them premiers criteria which the guideront . 
i am course also that he procédera at the foreign consultations , but I cannot échafauderai not to assumptions Act them structures Languages of these consultations . 
i serais extremely surprised apply he not fell discutait not with différentes persons , whose , by example , the Prime Minister of health province . 
we pouvons perhaps assurés that til choisira a Quebecer , perhaps - perhaps even a Scotians - Scotians , the foreign more honourable . 
orders OF THE 
transport travaux of the Senate 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I request that the second standpoint at the Order of the day , at savoir the study of the bill to Bill C - 21 , authorized the Prime at perhaps overburdened fell discussion . 
bill to Bill of credit No. 3 yeas 1999 - 2000 
second reading 
perhaps honourable senators , the bill to Bill C - 21 , also connu Subcommittee on behalf of Act to credit No. 3 yeas 1999 - 2000 , introduces of them appropriation of a amount total of 3,86 billion to $ , pursuant at the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) 1999 - 2000 . 
the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) is the Prime of the fiscal apply ending the 31 March 2000 and is conforme at them forecasts of spending présentées streets the budget of the 16 February 1999 . 
transport honourable senators apply souviennent that the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) , 1999 - 2000 , has been presented at the Senate Committee 16 November 1999 . Le 17 November , the Senate Committee has renvoyé at the committee sénatorial Standing of them finances nationales . 
our committee apply is réuni them 23 and 30 November . 
the 2,500 December , the committee has inclus his report Act the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) streets the second report of the committee of them finances nationales . 
transport senators apply rappellent that , when what report has been passed the 8 December , authorized Act week dernière , I ai mentioned that what budget Partnerships fact the objet of a review détaillé and that , the 23 November , our committee Partnerships heard them testimony of them officials of the Secretariat of the Council of the Treasury , Richard Neville and Andrew Lieff . 
the committee has trouvé their testimony very utiles and informatifs , commentator of habitude . 
i me arrête now Act some of them summarizing positions who never specialist not been définis or suffisamment expliqués at the surveillance of the study of the Estimates Main of them Estimates , 1999 - 2000 , and who repositories now perhaps approuvés by the Parliament at them termes of the bill to Bill C - 21 . 
these funds permettront at them departments and at them agences of garantir the degree of conformité at the 2000 2000 of their systems and the ensure the état of preparedness international , health coordination centrale and health planning of them measures to emergency . 
a another station important represents series affectation of 485,7 million for $ at 65 departments and agences fell vertu of series provision of postponement yeas make opposite at the foreign Estimates for functioning of thanking prescribed yeas 1998 - 99 . 
unabated provision of postponement caractérise the approach to the government , afin of reduce them Estimates for end of fiscal and the improve Act management of the encaisse of them Budgets of functioning . 
unabated provision allows at them gestionnaires of Extend fell before , the one fiscal at gerrymandering who suit , a amount pouvant represent until at 5p. cent of the budget of functioning of the fiscal precedent . 
the budget of functioning inclut them salaires , business Estimates for functioning and Oceans Estimates fell capital secondaires . 
a another station important is the affectation of 482,5 million for $ at six departments and agences afin of coordonner them activities of the Canada fell what who has trait at the conflict at the Kosovo . 
the Canada participe at them efforts of health community international since the beginning of health crisis , fell February 1998 . Depuis that royal situation has dégénéré quickly fell March 1999 , the Canada déploie of them efforts diplomatiques and military , and he participe actively at the assistance humanitaire at them refugees . 
something 199,4 million for $ are alloués at the Secretariat of the Council of the Treasury , who doit distribute of them fund at them departments and at them agences yeas compenser them effects of them conventions collectives conclues at what day , analyzed that yeas effectuer of other rajustements . 
health negotiating collective has repris at the beginning of 1997 . 
these funds représentent them costs différentiels rétroactifs and permanents relatifs at them salaires yeas 1999 - 2000 . 
he rereads has 149,5 million for $ yeas them departments of health Défense national and the foreign Veteran Veterans , fell response at Act recommendation of the committee Standing of health defence national and the foreign Veterans Veterans of health House of them Commons , who Partnerships examiné them questions affectant Act life and Oceans families of them members of them Forces Forces . 
unabated strategy englobe several volets , whose of them stages of summer and the foreign stages yeas them young of them First First and Oceans young Inuits , and she is axée Act the trade and the development internationaux , business Science and health technology , and the other programs connexes yeas them young . 
series somme of 112,2 million ira at four departments and agencies yeas them measures to restructuring and the adaptation of them fisheries Forces visant at atténuer the impact Act them communities and Oceans residents of health Coast is the Government eliminating the Day Stratégie of the fish of fond of the Atlantic . 
the foreign measures to restructuring and the adaptation are also prescribed streets the case of health fishing at the salmon Act Act Coast west . 
honourable senators , I fell viens now at them summarizing positions who affectent sideshow of them departments or the foreign agencies . 
series somme of 108 million for $ is allouée at the Department of the Développement of them resources Resources yeas the Fund - Government Canada yeas Act creation of jobs , what who reflects the commitment that has commitments the government ' apply attaquer at them problems auxquels Cutbacks opposite them Canadians streets them regions where the rate of unemployment is élevé . 
what Department apply emploiera , fell canvas collaboration with them other ordres of government , the sector private , business agencies of developing régional and Oceans organizations communautaires , at stimulate the Employment . 
a amount of 84,1 million for $ is attribué at the Department of them Foreign Foreign and the Government Commerce international yeas répartir between certaines provinces series share of them revenues provenant of them rights versés by foreign exportateurs of wood of implementation . 
the Department of the Patrimoine Heritage receives 70 million for $ yeas improve them programs of soutien at them languages Languages fell augmentant the assistance directe granted at them development of them communaut minoritaires and fell finançant them agreements fédéraux - provinciaux , basically streets the field of the post - Status language of health minorité and the Day language seconde . 
honourable senators , the odyssey section non budgétaire is the credit for 50 million for $ affecté at Act Défense national streets the but the augmenter provisoirement the avance streets the countdown of funds to roulement yeas that the Department puisse payer ses effectifs Airports fell station at the abroad at the case where the passage at the 2000 2000 poserait of them difficulties of trésorerie . 
i vais at présent you communiquer certaines informations Act them changes at them forecasts of them Estimates legislatures . 
transport summarizing positions législatifs faisant the objet of rajustements of them Estimates projetées are them suivants . 
the Department of the Agriculture and the Government Agroalimentaire receives a complément of 179,5 million for $ yeas payer them producers fell vertu of them différents elements of health Act Act Act protection of the Income Farm . 
these programs acclaimed yeas objet Prime of garantir them incomes agricultural yeas help them producers at stabiliser their incomes and at gérer their risks . 
much of these programs are administrés by foreign provinces or by the foreign agencies or boards provinciaux . 
a complément of 182,3 million for $ has been accordé at the Department of them Finance at the subheading of them payments to equalization versés at them provinces . 
unabated increase reflects them changes opérés streets them forecasts Act lesquelles are calculés these payments , notamment Act population and Oceans revenues fiscales of series province donnée . 
transport 12.5 billion to $ prévus initialement streets the Estimates Main of them Estimates for the Department of them Finance yeas them versements at them provinces at the subheading of the Transfert Heritage fell matière of health and the programs Cultural acclaimed been réduits of 108,5 million for $ . 
he remembered notional of compenser the increase fell value of the transfer fell points of tax , attribuable at the foreign revenues more importantes provenant of the tax Act the Income of them particuliers and the foreign companies . 
the CHST allows the help financièrement them provinces streets them domaines of health health , the Government post post , the Government assistance social and the foreign services Cultural . 
he rereads has a nouveau credit for 79 million for $ yeas the Department of them Finance , yeas of them payments to replacement at the subheading of them programs permanents , at cause of them recouvrements more élevés that prévus streets the Estimates Main . 
transport recouvrements more élevés reflètent Act hausse of the Income staff and the some other payments to taxes . 
honourable senators , these positions that I viens of describe représentent series increase globale of 174,3 million for $ , laquelle , series once soustraite Act diminution of 3,2 million for $ répartie between the other departments and agencies mentionnés streets what Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) 1999 - 2000 , run résume at series increase net of 171,1 million for $ . 
honourable senators , I thank the nouveau chairman of our committee , the senator Lowell Murray , the dapper diligence , the Hon. ardeur at the work and the Hon. oeil averti . 
i thank also a vétéran who has repris of the service at the committee , the senator Doody , who has already occupé the station prestigieux of President of what committee . 
confirms said , honourable senators , and rose remercié all levels members of the committee yeas their bon work , I voudrais now prier all levels honourable senators ' approve the octroi of appropriation at Majesty Majesty and at the government ' Majesty Majesty fell adoptant the bill to Bill C - 21 afin that the government ' s Canada puisse vaquer at ses Affairs . 
the Honourable Lowell Murray : 
honourable senators , I thank the senator Cools of ses mots gentils . 
i him rends Act pareille , but not sideshow yeas Act form car I Act thank sincèrement of unabated explanation complète and detailed the what Bill of Bill of appropriation . 
she has grandement facilité mon work . 
honourable senators , permettez - moi of explain streets breaching context the Senate expecting these measures . 
well heard , fell vertu of health Constitution , we awakened the right to modify , or even the rejeter , everything bill to Bill whose we analyzed saisis . 
néanmoins , the Senate has recognized that the octroi of appropriation , the Imposition of taxes and Oceans measures Projections fell General Cutbacks part of them prérogatives them more jalousement gardées of health House of them Commons . 
the Senate évolutif of the afternoon - war has trouvé the moyen of exercer ses responsibilities at title of Commons attainment of the Parliament everything fell respectant them prérogatives of health House of them Commons streets these domaines . 
by conséquent , we renvoyons before everything the budget at the committee sénatorial Standing of them finances nationales . 
the committee of them finances nationales not regarde not necessarily all levels programs . 
he tente of And them Estimates for the administration Public fédérale streets series perspective of political administrative mostly , the sorte that the mandate not can not perhaps restreint . 
the mandate doit perhaps General yeas the study of them appropriation and the foreign forecasts . 
confirms not empêche not a committee sénatorial ... 
generally , the Estimates for them Estimates is renvoyé at the committee sénatorial Standing of them finances nationales . 
the committee ' examine and fell rend account at the Senate . 
after whereupon , the Senate adopte generally the bill to Bill of appropriation who we arrive generally a little more later the Day House of them Commons . 
i attire the attention of them honourable senators Act our report , where several questions importantes are soulevées by the committee . 
the senator Cools has mentioned the 0,5 1.1 of $ that the government has exigé streets the Estimates for them Estimates Supplementary yeas résoudre the problem of the passage àle 2000 2000 . 
we awakened also signalé Act radiation of loans consentis at the foreign governments étrangers . 
the committee guardian of opinion that the government aurait owed élaborer series series of criteria which we auraient licences of determine Act relevance of blunt radiation of loans at the future . 
he aurait been well also that the snakes puisse see a link between Act radiation of them debts of yesterday and our policy of emprunt of tomorrow , but what is là a standpoint of standpoint everything at fact staff that I expose . 
confirms door the amount exigé at unabated end durant the fiscal courant at approximately 132 million for $ , whose 70 million for $ seem perhaps alloués at them nouveaux vessels of the Embassy of the Canada at Berlin . 
we aimerions savoir where submariners them 60 other million for $ and the Department has promised to us enlighten more later Act unabated question . 
we analyzed impatients that he the circulation . 
health issue of the recouvrement of them costs yeas the inquiry effectuée by the government Act the écrasement of the avion of Swissair Act them coasts of health Nova Scotia Nova has been soulevée . 
the senator Ferretti Barth has longuement insisté Act the fact that he fallait encourage the government at continue to réclamer series allowance of Swissair . 
bye term term , the committee is the notice that he tangibly changer them sections pertinents of health Convention on Chicago afin that foreign carriers aériens and their assureurs litigants series certaine responsibility yeas them investigations and the nettoyage subsequently at them accidents aériens . 
til has constaté that the Canada is particularly vulnérable Act the Mifflin financier because that the number of vols streets his space aérien is more élevé compared at gerrymandering of other countries . 
unabated question we pertains at the most haut standpoint , and the senator Ferretti Barth has reason for ask that the Department of them Foreign Foreign apply there penche blocks that possible . 
honourable senators , the increase the foreign fund nécessaires at the program of control of them weapons at gun has certainly attiré our attention at the committee , and the senator Tkachuk has abordé the topic durant Act period of them questions few days after that the committee apply authorized réuni . 
series another question that we awakened signalée Incidence activist of other - and I attirerais your attention Act everything the report ? is Act grande question of them payments versés Subcommittee on regime of health Act Act Act responsibility to the state . 
what is the one of them subjects favoris of the senator Doody , and he the has poursuivi very efficacement , ma faith , everything commentator a certain number of other colleagues durant our hearings on committee . 
the standpoint soulevé by the senator Doody guardian that til not trouvait aucune provision streets the Estimates for them Estimates yeas the affair Act the equity salariale , that the government has perdue appeared them courts - campus say them things telles that thin are . 
we convenons all , I believe , that what is series question of prudence of health share of the government . 
streets what case - ci , he has amassé the money streets the credit for them salaires and the foreign benefits Cultural , where human not pouvait évidemment not the find . 
transport hauts officials we acclaimed well said that if til their Partnerships posé of them questions streets the intervalle , they them auraient esquivées . 
if the snakes Partnerships su combien of money the government mettait of side at the case where he perdrait dapper cause , health Position legal , yeas not not say policy , the Government government aurait évidemment been much more précaire . 
we comprenons the context streets lequel the government has tranquillement amassé of the money without vouloir fell chiffrer the amount before the day redouté where he aurait owed payer . 
confirms étant said , however , during a certain number of years , the government has overburdened of side of them hundreds of millions of $ , at reason for activist by year , streets the credit for them salaires and the foreign benefits Cultural . 
nil of between us not apply fell is aperçu and nil of between us not has posé of question at what topic . 
now that the affair hook at dapper end - Government government arranged still quelquefois Act Act sellette - Government government versera the money pursuant at the article 30 of health Act Act Act responsibility to the state . 
the Parliament not fingertips not Act moindre chance to apply prononcer Act Act question anguishes of discuss the Government amount versé , anguishes of health way whose he arranged versé , anguishes of them reasons yeas lesquelles he is versé , anguishes same of health policy of the government , and analyzed of subsequently . 
what is series question who has tracassé them meilleurs cerveaux of the committee , authorized levels senators Bolduc , Doody , Cools and Moore , notamment . 
i cannot devrais not appoint these senators , car all levels members of the committee apply are much intéressés at unabated question . 
we awakened signalé our intention of there revert also a day . 
i cannot know not what that confirms donnera , but I believe that royal question is importante . 
honourable senators , after wheel suivi the allocution prononcée by our colleague , the senator Cools , and if you jetez a coup of oeil Act the report , better yet , if you flavour the report that the committee has presented Act the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates Act lequel richly what Bill of Bill of appropriation , you conviendrez , I the hope , that the committee has examiné very carefully what budget and that you pouvez fell blunt conscience approve what Bill of Bill No. 
( Act motion is adoptée and the bill to Bill is read series second once . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series third once ? 
the senator Cools : 
honourable senators , commentator we the savons , a giveaway of a day is requis yeas mood at Act third reading of the bill to Bill , but I believe that he rereads has a exodus consensus of them two sides of health House yeas mood blocks now at Act third reading . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
nay . 
the senator Murray : 
i cannot think not that he authorized possible for accorder our leave . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave not is not granted . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Cools , health third reading of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement . ) 
bill to Bill of 1999 yeas Act implementation fell implementation of conventions fiscales 
third reading - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Hervieux - Payette , P , seconded by the Honourable Senator Gauthier , Refer at Act third reading of the bill to Bill S - 3 , Act mettant fell implementation a agreed , the foreign conventions and the foreign protocoles conclu between the Canada and the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , health Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzbékistan , health Jordanie , the Japan and the Luxembourg , fell standpoint of avoid them duplicates impositions and the prévenir the evasion fiscale fell matière of taxes Act the Income . 
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk : 
honourable senators , the bill to Bill S - 3 has been renvoyé at two committees . 
i cannot parlerai not to health decision to the committee of them Banking at the hook of the bill to Bill anguishes of the study that he wouldn has consacrée . 
bye first standpoint , the bill to Bill S - 3 is , basically , series measure visant at avoid Act double Imposition . 
he pertains several country with lesquels we awakened the intent of commercer or streets lesquels we voulons invest , and he is therefore streets the interest mutuel of the Canada and the foreign country concernés of adopt series telle measure legislative . 
honourable senators , business bills of Bill permettant of avoid Act double Imposition not are not series nouveauté . 
the Parliament fell receives since fort long . 
commentator the acclaimed indiqué them officials of the Agency of the Income , their analysis comporte two volets yeas veiller at what that foreign citizens who brassent of them Affairs streets of other countries not soient not imposés two once . 
the but the foreign bills of Bill fell matière of double Imposition is the see at what that he not there ait not to évitement fiscal . 
transport bills of Bill of what type donnent at the government more of leviers him permettant of veiller at what that all levels taxes exigibles soient levés . 
however , I am contente that the bill to Bill S - 3 ait fact the objet of the kind of sober auquel not acclaimed not been submitted to other bills of Bill streets the past , well that confirms aurait owed perhaps the case . 
he rereads has series exception dignified of mention , and what is the agreement Act the évitement fiscal who has been examined at the committee of them Affairs Foreign , rather than at the committee of them Banking , fell May 1998 . Si ma memory is fidèle , the agreement apply appliquait at the foreign country commentator Act Croatia , the Chile and the Vietnam . 
the committee of them Affairs Foreign has underlined that the snakes not capitalists not sideshow apply préoccuper of Tolls and that the snakes capitalists aborder Act measure legislative fell tenant account the all levels aspects of health policy étrangère . 
commentator the savent them honourable senators , after wheel began at traiter with a country , he arrive streets of nombreux case that we fell venions at accept their structures , their values and their attitudes . 
bye the moment of the examination by the committee , the senator Di Nino and the other members of the committee , whose the senator Grafstein , if I me remind well , laughed exprimé the notice that we devrions wheel the EI that foreign country with lesquels we signons of them agreements Act the évitement fiscal possèdent them structures appropriées , notamment of them courts independent . 
they repositories reconnaître Act primauté of the right . 
honourable senators , til has much insisté Act Act question of health confidentialité . 
if the foreign companies repositories make affair outre - sea and that fell reason for a agreed permettant of avoid Act double Imposition thin are tenues of divulguer their finances and their modalités of functioning at a another country , we devons perhaps sûrs that these countries not utilisent these information that at them purposes prescribed streets the agreement fiscal and non yeas of other motifs . 
the experience me has learned that fell of nombreux other countries , health confidentialité is series teachings who never existe not . 
if a department receives the Government information , he is less respectueux of them rules of procedure , the Day confidentialité and the foreign rights of them particuliers and the foreign citizens . 
fortunately , the number of these countries diminue , but they are still a topic of préoccupation . 
fell May 1998 , even if we avions adopted the bill to Bill permettant of avoid Act double Imposition , we awakened déclaré that the Department of them Foreign Foreign should procéder at series analysis complète yeas see if the country with lequel we devions sign a agreed permettant of avoid Act double Imposition Partnerships a bilan acceptable fell matière of respect to them rights of health human and the foreign guarantees appropriées fell matière of constitution , the practice and the procedure . 
we devons we ensure that when we signons the agreement fell question , we cannot contribuons not at nuire at our citizens and at them citizens of what country . 
unabated observation has been introductory streets unabated enceinte . 
we awakened signalé at the Department of them Foreign Foreign analyzed that at them other departments concernés and at the Senate that all levels agreements of what type devraient perhaps examinés at Act light of dictatorship . 
honourable senators , I ai said at them representatives of them Foreign Foreign that a bill to Bill permettant of avoid Act double Imposition not should not perhaps presented at the Parliament without series analysis complète of the respect to them rights of health human by the country fell question . 
til we took garanti that what kind of analysis allait streets the meaning of what that the government ' s époque considérait commentator series good practice . 
however , business suggestions that we awakened faites at the opportunity to what Bill of Bill not acclaimed not strokes of subsequently , seems he . 
i me réjouis of the fact that the senator Lynch - Staunton ait defended with autant of véhémence Act question of the respect to them rights of health human , and the Senate should the fell thank . 
he has 3.25 fell question the choice of the committee auquel what Bill of Bill serait renvoyé . 
tangibly - he the Refer strictly at the committee of them Banking or , what who is more logical , at the committee of them Affairs Foreign ? 
i am heureuse that the Senate ait renvoyé what Bill of Bill at the committee of them Affairs Foreign . 
streets his intervention , the senator Lynch - Staunton has indiqué that we devrions , streets unabated enceinte , join our actions quotidiennes at our belles paroles at the topic of the respect to them rights of health human . 
i think that we devrions heed account the these propos . 
streets unabated enceinte , we analyzed very fiers of our reports . 
when these reports are adoptés at the unanimously , I am davantage confiante of the fact that we croyons that foreign énoncés of political and Oceans recommendations faites streets our reports acclaimed of health value and that the government should fell heed account . 
streets our report Act the Asia - Pacific , at Act page 97 , we awakened said that royal policy étrangère tient account the factors propres at favoriser the respect to them rights of health human , commentator Act good management of them Affairs translated , health democratization and health society civile , health primauté of the right and health necessity of series magistrature indépendante . 
health list not is not exhaustive , but he rereads has instead of heed account the these factors before that we cannot we engagions streets of them agreements and the foreign relations with the other countries . 
bye Act page 109 of our report , we awakened spoke of them principles of series policy canadienne cohérente fell matière of Rights of health human . 
he devient of more fell more obvious that foreign questions of Commerce and the investment not devraient not perhaps examinées isolément of them rights of health human and the Day democracy . 
we awakened signalé streets our report series allocution présentée by the Honourable Lloyd Axworthy , streets laquelle he has déclaré that foreign rights of health human and health policy étrangère menaient at series approach pragmatique raisonnée at the hook of the trade international and the foreign Affairs Foreign . 
by conséquent , commentator the committee ' has mentioned streets his report , the trade and the investment not are not commitments isolément . 
he tangibly them considérer simultanément with them rights of health human . 
he is extremely important , honourable senators , that the image that curb the government ' s Canada streets the world dictatorship at series approach systématique , cohérente and raisonnée at the hook of them rights of health human . 
he not tangibly not séparer them rights of health human of them other matters . 
transport rights of health human imprègnent all our plans to Action and toutes them laws . 
we devons examiner all levels enjeux . 
appeared the committee of them Affairs Foreign , business representatives of health nouvelle Agency of the Income acclaimed avoué that they not specialist examiné that foreign two questions of the evasion fiscale and the Day double Imposition , car what is the mandate who their has been confié . 
however , a result them problems , what is that we cannot awakened more of Department of the Revenue . 
health nouvelle agence not is not assujettie at them mêmes practices and at them mêmes principles that a department ordinaire doit adhere . 
transport employees of the Department of the Revenue not acclaimed not them mêmes responsibilities at assumer . 
i souligne confirms car , streets the chapter of introduction of his report of November 1999 , at Act page 18 , the Auditor General has déclaré : 
however , I crains that the government not ait not considéré suffisamment their repercussions Act Act reddition of comptes and health Economy . 
the example their nature , these mechanisms mettent fell question them relations redditionnelles classiques where them ministers rendent account the their political and programs at the Parliament and , by the entremise of the Parliament , at them citizens fell General . 
Étant rose that the foreign tiers are parties prenantes at these mechanisms , business ministers not are never entièrement responsables of eux . 
streets some cases , til has intentionnellement établi of them mechanisms of way totalement indépendante of them ministers , well that they puissent dépendre of them fund and the foreign powers fédéraux . 
without reddition of comptes and without Economy appropriées , these mechanisms arresting nuire at Act ability to the Parliament of examiner fell depth the utilisation who is introductory of them powers fédéraux and the protect the right to them citizens at series reddition of comptes of health share of the government . 
the Agency of the Income met fell implementation series policy fiscale . 
she is dotée of a mandate strict and she the observe . 
when til has asked at these people apply they apply préoccupent of questions telles them rights of health human , health saine management of them Affairs translated and health ability BNA , they acclaimed responded that they apply fell remettaient at them Foreign Foreign . 
if the Department of them Foreign Foreign indique that he rereads has presence of series relationship diplomatique with a government , the Agency of the Income apply fell tient là . 
confirms not done not part of his mandate , yeas the instant of the least . 
the Department of them Foreign Foreign is therefore the body which should examiner these countries afin of see if what is the kind of countries with lesquels we devrions sign the foreign agreements internationaux . 
the afternoon the témoignage of hauts officials of them Foreign Foreign , he is clear that he not existe not at the Breast of their Department a process independent and systématique who permette of determine that foreign country with lesquels we concluons of them agreements yeas avoid Act double Imposition are well - Provincial country with lesquels we souhaitons approfondir and élargir our relations . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton has quoted the example of the Ouzbékistan . 
the bilan of the Ouzbékistan not is not copy . 
the Ouzbékistan is still hypothéqué by foreign vestiges of the Union Soviet . 
he has well apporté few changes , but he not has not amended considérablement dapper way of gérer them Affairs translated . 
til there has enregistré of them abus of them rights of health human and health situation of them rights of health human is still telle fell Ouzbékistan that confirms should we inquiéter . 
by elsewhere , the Ouzbékistan has signed the foreign pactes internationaux the engageant at adhere them rights of the man . 
we awakened at the least là series indication that the country acceptera of soumettre ses practices internes at a control international . 
the Union Soviet him has shirts a héritage désastreux Act them plans écologique and political . 
what who me inquiète , what is that person cannot apply is préoccupé of Auditing systematically Act situation of them country énumérés streets the bill to Bill S - 3 . 
i cannot know not how to other countries , by example the Algeria , health Bulgaria , health Jordanie , the Japan , the Lebanon and the Luxembourg , run comparent at the Ouzbékistan , and I cannot know not where they apply situent by report at series norme World fell matière of Rights of the man . 
i cannot organize not them principles or practices who we permettent of decide whether tel or tel country deserves that we traitions with him . 
human not seems wheel analysé the problem . 
well that I sois of agreement with the principle of them conventions visant at avoid them duplicates impositions , I remains convaincue that we cannot devrions not distinguer of countries fell particular activist that we cannot we analyzed not assurés , fell bon government that we formons , the Hon. integrity . 
he serait unfair of écarter a country of health list of the bill to Bill S - 3 without wheel at the préalable évalué systematically all levels other with lesquels we awakened conclu series telle entente . 
commentator til the knows , the Portugal and the Luxembourg , by example , are the foreign country which , commentator the Canada , are members of the NATO and the Government OECD and therefore , we analyzed relatively sûrs of their political . 
the Canada has always commitments commentator référence Act Declaration Universal of them rights of the man and apply is efforcé of juger them country by report at series norme similaire . 
we cannot prenons nil country particular at title of example . 
when we cannot traitons not with a country or when we cessons of wheel of them relations with a country , what is that , after the wheel jugé according some principles , we estimons that what country not has not satisfait at them criteria . 
he is clear , the afternoon our analysis of the bill to Bill S - 13 , that the government not has not établi of standards . 
the government not has not respecté them demandes that wouldn Partnerships adressées the committee afin that he établisse of them standards . 
he serait therefore unfair of pointer a country of the doigt at what stadium . 
i cannot think not that we devrions juger them people and Oceans country at the hasard . 
he tangibly juger of manner cohérente and systématique . 
unabated approval is liée at the respect to them rights of health human , at the principle of the bon government , at Act primauté of the right and at the independence of health magistrature whose I ai spoke . 
the message that we envoyons also at our citizens , what is that they repositories adhere Act rule of health double Imposition and that they repositories fournir of them information financiers at a another country . 
we devons we ensure that , when we signons these agreements which apply appliqueront at them businesses which iront éventuellement make affair at the abroad , we disposons of afford to veiller at what that foreign information déclarés by our businesses cannot soient not utilisés at the foreign purposes malveillantes and that our citizens not soient not victims of measures or the traitements who petitioners contraires at them standards Forces . 
honourable senators , I ai soulevé Act question more of series once , with strength I the hope . 
the bill to Bill S - 3 shows that we cannot awakened not succeeded the test . 
by conséquent , I pourrais difficilement say that the other countries acclaimed échoué also . 
we devons allegiances of the Order chez we . 
the minister Axworthy parle of series policy étrangère fondée Act to them principles . 
i request at the government ' s Canada and at the Department of them Foreign Foreign of allegiances these mots fell application yeas that , when we serons saisis of the next bill to Bill fell matière of double Imposition , business officials puissent we ensure that the foreign standards existent and that thin are respectées by foreign country with lesquels we signons them agreements . 
the Honourable Nicholas W . Taylor : 
honourable senators , I ai listened with interest the senator Andreychuk , who has spoke of experience . 
i am a member récent of the committee of them Affairs Foreign , but , streets the framework of mon work streets the world of them Affairs , I am allé streets series vingtaine of countries . 
i reconnais that he not is not also easy that he paraît of Welfare assis at the Senate and the parler of the meaning moral and the foreign rights of health human streets them other countries and the mesurer their degree of respect to these rights according our propres standards . 
confirms me fact penser at Act legendary grecque of Procruste . 
when business invités of health maison étaient too grands yeas the bed , Procruste their coupait them inches , and apply they étaient too grandchildren , he their étirait them members . 
bye some égards , voilà the kind of argument that foreign senators ' s another side Cutbacks valoir ; commentator Procruste , they croient that the country doit apply adapt at our bed , fault of whereupon we cannot devrions not make affair with him . 
we devons examiner some aspects commentator the Environment and the trade , and non only gerrymandering of them rights of health human . 
bye the incorrigible of them years , I ai constaté that royal meilleure way of make mood of bonnes ideas , what is by the entremise of the trade . 
confirms remonte can - perhaps at the époque where them Portugais acclaimed began at apply tribute fell Africa , fell Asia and analyzed of subsequently . 
the senator Andreychuk : 
confirms we took rose the slavery ! 
the senator Taylor : 
yes , a grandfather number of mauvaises ideas acclaimed also been importées streets the Brunswick Monde . 
however , the trade semblait perhaps Act meilleure way of improving them rights of health human and the activité humaine streets each region . 
he Partnerships of them effects bénéfiques . 
til not saurait compare what who faces passait at the XVIe century at Act situation actuelle . 
we awakened fact of them progress and he seems that we the devons primarily at the trade - and non not because that the foreign country décident that they are meilleurs that foreign other and that they refusent of apply associer with the other States at least that these derniers not deviennent also bons that eux . 
what is series way discutable of aborder Act question . 
apply he progresse , but is still fell deçà of the level espéré , we devrions the encourage fell continuant at commercer with him . 
however , run he régresse and prive of them people of Rights whose they jouissaient series generation précédente , we devrions can - perhaps utiliser the trade commentator a moyen we permettant of them inciter at adhere davantage their environment and Oceans rights of health human . 
ma training of géologue me pousse can - perhaps at penser that we devons determine apply they progressent or régressent . 
if a Crown progresse , even apply he not has not yet atteint our level , he vaut can - perhaps Act peine of commercer with him . 
the senator has spoke of the Ouzbékistan . 
we ourselves impotent rendus all sides streets unabated part of the world . 
what not is perhaps - perhaps not series good idea of choose what country because that he remembered trouve at side of the Afghanistan , who is gouverné by a regime taliban . 
i mets same the Canada at the challenge of Welfare very tolérant apply he Partnerships of them Veterans talibans at dapper border , patrouillant them mountains . 
no oublions not them problems which assaillent the government ' s Ouzbékistan . 
he not has not at croiser the Railway with the foreign groups pacifiques and gentils commentator them Conservatives , business néo - démocrates or telecommunications Liberals ; dapper situation is everything another . 
by conséquent , he is a little unfair of say that he should utiliser the same system . 
personally , I am the notice that the Ouzbékistan fact of them progress remarquables . 
yeas wheel past the Government time fell Iran and fell Afghanistan , I am fell measure of say that the Ouzbékistan is fell avance Act eux of several years - light at some égards . 
yeas fell revert at our topic , he devient difficult to mesurer them progress enregistrés . 
we cannot pouvons that tenter of determine whether these countries progressent and we remind the importance historic of the trade since the foreign time immémoriaux . 
if the snakes retourne at them premiers authors grecs who écrivaient Act the influence of health Grèce fell Africa , til constate that what is the trade who has licences at Act culture and at them ideas of apply propager of series region at the another . 
he tangibly wheel confidence and croire that if them ideas and Oceans crops are bonnes , what are thin who finiront by survivre , rather than the foreign ideas and the foreign crops funestes who Cutbacks that series society régresse Act the Mifflin Plan the respect to them rights of health human . 
the way générale , honourable senators , despite few reculs here and là , the humanity seems progresser and what is at the trade that she the doit . 
he arrive sometimes that she the doive at them missionnaires , authorized before , authorized after , but the trade constitue almost always Act way Act more efficient and health later impartiale of make circulation them ideas and Oceans crops . 
i cannot am not to agree with these individuals or these groups who essaient of us say , here at the Canada , that we cannot devrions not traiter with a country déterminé because that he not atteint not certaines standards . 
i continues to croire that at term term , the trade rendra the Canada and the world meilleurs . 
the senator Andreychuk : 
honourable senators , the senator Taylor acceptera he ' respond at series question ? 
the senator Taylor : 
certainly , even if I am very occupé what night . 
the senator Andreychuk : 
i am certaine that confirms not prendra not much of his time . 
the senator we présente a argument that I ai heard he rereads has five years fell provenance of the government which affirmait that he tangibly séparer the trade of health issue of the respect to them rights of health human . 
more recently however , the minister Axworthy has clearly établi that he rereads has a link between the trade and Oceans rights of health human . 
the senator has soulevé at fair title series idea with laquelle I am everything at fact of agreement , what is - at - say that he particulars try to see if a country apply améliore or done to them efforts yeas apply improve at the chapter of them rights of health human , or apply he régresse streets what field . 
ma question comprend two volets . 
everyone of thanking , the senator not believes - he not that royal policy of the government ' lier them two domaines is fair ? 
deuxièmement , not is - he not to notice that royal norme whose I parlais équivaut at the principle that he Partnerships mentioned , what is - at - say to determine whether a country progresse or régresse streets the file of them rights of health human ? 
the senator Taylor : 
honourable senators , I am pleased that the senator reconnaisse that we devons évaluer différemment them country which avancent and progressent and ceux who régressent or suppriment of them rights . 
certes , the weapon ultimate of the trade , what are them sanctions . 
we awakened strokes Points at them sanctions commerciales fell Africa , quoique some diront that thin not acclaimed not strokes much of effects favorables . 
we awakened strokes Points at them sanctions fell Bosnia ; what is what who has causé the problem of the Kosovo streets series certaine measure . 
i cannot veux not wheel the air of a rebelle , but I cannot lie not also étroitement the trade and Oceans rights of health human that no the fact our Prime of them Foreign Foreign , according the Honourable Senator . 
i cannot am not rendu at what standpoint . 
examinons a little our relationship with Act China . 
our échanges trading with Act China are nombreux and what trade we rapporte much of money , but Act norme appliquée at what country seems différer of celle that we utilisons yeas the Ouzbékistan , where we cannot achetons that few cuirs and peaux . 
otherwise said , we devons veiller at what that series economy importante streets certaines regions not hiding not toutes sortes of effects délétères . 
i believe everything of same that the trade is Act meilleure way of improving the telles situations . 
the minister of them Foreign Foreign not me has not prouvé that series region quelconque apply is better scope because that we avions overburdened end at our échanges trading with she . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Lynch - Staunton , the debate is adjourned . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , he is now 15 1:30 30 and , pursuant at the Order of the Senate , the Senate apply ajourne at 14 hours tomorrow . 
( the Senate apply ajourne at 14 hours tomorrow . ) 
debates of the Senate ( Hansard ) 
2e Session , Session Session , 
volume 138 , Issue 23 
the Thursday 16 December 1999 
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker 
table of them Contents 
STATEMENTS STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 
tributes at the opportunity to dapper retirement 
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe 
the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization yeas Act security and health cooperation fell Europe , tenue of the 13 at the 15 October 1999 
these Canadiennes who acclaimed marqué our history 
the Senate 
the état of health of the senator Willie Adams 
visitors of Gallery 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
security and services of Intelligence 
depository of health response to the government at the report of the committee Special 
health situation actuelle of the regime financier Heritage and international 
Presented of the report of the committee of them Banking and the Government trade 
Economy Internal , Budgets and Administration 
depository of the third report of the committee 
health Act Act Act defence national Position Act Act the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques Le Code criminal 
report of the committee 
health Act Act Act statistique Position Act Act them Archives nationales of the Canada 
bill to Bill Amend - Première Reading 
the Union Inter 
depository of the report of the Group Heritage of the Union Inter Act Act 102e conference Inter tenue at Berlin , Germany 
depository of the report of the Group Heritage of the Union Inter Act Act 54e session of the Assembly générale of them Nations Nations tenue at York York 
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe 
depository of the report of health delegation canadienne at Act conference of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization yeas Act security and health cooperation fell Europe tenue of the 13 at the 15 October 1999 
the Association Inter Canada - France 
depository of the report of health vingt - ninth meeting Annual of health delegation canadienne tenue of the 8 at the 15 September 1999 
the Union Inter 
report of the Group Heritage of the Union Inter Act Act 102e conference Inter tenue at Berlin , fell Germany - Notice of inquiry 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire 
the fate of them farmers céréaliers of the West - Possibility response at the report of the committee of health House of them Commons 
transport difficulties of them céréaliculteurs of the West 
transport difficulties of them céréaliculteurs of the West - Ex attente of series response to the Prime Minister 
transport Foreign Intergovernmental 
the Ontario ? Position Act Act Act restructuring régionale - Possibility determination of the power legal of health city of Ottawa 
transport transport 
the agreement Act the Administration of the airport international of Halifax - Ex obligation to the government federal - contrôler Act nature acide of the ardoise 
transport Peoples aboriginal 
request for Answer at the report of the committee Act them Veterans Veterans aboriginal 
orders OF THE 
bill to Bill of appropriation No. 3 yeas 1999 - 2000 
third reading 
bill to Bill of 1999 yeas Act implementation fell implementation of conventions fiscales 
third reading 
bill to Bill Act the Agreement définitif nisga' has 
second reading - Adjourned of the debate 
health Sanction Royal 
bill to Bill Amend - Second Reading - Continued of the debate 
health Act Act the Immigration 
bill to Bill Amend - Second Reading - Stands of the debate 
languages Languages 
passage of the second report of the committee Joint Standing 
review of health regulators 
passage of the Prime report of the committee Joint Standing 
the Union Monetary European 
the report of the committee of them Affairs Foreign - Stands of the debate 
the décret tabled pursuant at Act Act Act them transport at the Canada autorisant some carriers aériens majeurs at negotiate and at conclude blunt entente conditionnelle - Adoption of the third report of the committee of them transport and the foreign Communications 
the Ontario 
the bill to Bill Act Act restructuring régionale - Ex refusal of déclarer Ottawa officially bilingue - Interpellation - Suspended of the debate 
Assent ASSENT 
the Ontario 
health law Act Act restructuring régionale - Ex refusal of the government ontarien of adopt Act recommendation visant at make the Ottawa series city bilingue - Interpellation - Continued of the debate 
transport recommendations of health Commission Royal Act them Peoples aboriginal relatively at Act function self autochtone 
passage of the report of the committee of them Peoples aboriginal 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
Authorized at the committee of examiner the état of the system of health 
routine Foreign 
Authorized at the committee of Extend Act date of the tabling of his report final sur the study of health Modified apportée at the mandate of the Organization of the Traité of the Atlantic North 
transport recommendations of health Commission Royal Act them Peoples aboriginal relatively at Act function self 
Authorized donnée at the committee of Extend the tabling of the report final 
the Senate 
the octroi of a status bilingue at Act city of Ottawa - Adoption of health motion 
transport vows of Christmas 
adjournment 
the SENATE 
the Thursday 16 December 1999 
health postponement is ouverte at 14 hours , the Speaker étant at the fauteuil . 
prayers . 
tributes at the opportunity to dapper retirement 
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn : 
honourable senators , I query , at the name of the Senate , say a word of adieu Special at a man that I am fière of power appeler ami , Rand Richard Greene , our Clerk Deputy , who prend dapper retirement . 
i cannot voudrais not that Richard we quitte before that he authorized said publicly combien I me fiais at Act wisdom , at the savoir and at them skills that he mettait generously at ma provision , and confirms , well before that I cannot between at the Senate . 
fell lisant his curriculum vitae yesterday , I ai learned that he Partnerships began dapper career here fell activist that page , fell 1956 . 
what is the year same where I quittais Lethbridge yeas series aventure who capitalists me amener , fell company of other young students Airports and trillion , a little everywhere at the country and until at them Nations Nations during series week . 
i avais Robbie 16 years and I cannot étais never allée more at the is that Medicine Hat . 
but we awakened all levels two attrapé the virus who hante these murs and we fell awakened fact the instead of work of blunt series life . 
health first priority guardian , well course , the rencontrer series certaine Jean Sutherland , who guardian considérée with everything the respect who convenait commentator , and I quote , " justice lady who dirige the Senate " . 
the afternoon what that I ai avoided recueillir at the époque , she semblait constituer a élément clé of the bon functioning of these lieux . 
jean Sutherland Partnerships a jeune assistant who savait at somewhat close everything Act the functioning of the Senate , business étapes of health législation and Oceans pièges streets lesquels can tomber a government négligent who never diminishes not Act procedure fell matière of consultation and the cooperation . 
he guardian là also yeas prevent them people commentator moi of embêter Jean Sutherland and he capitalists therefore perhaps at the courant of everyone what that she faisait . 
the assistant fell question , what is well course Richard Greene . 
outre ses skills , Richard guardian a man charmant and we analyzed immediately devenus of very bons friends , even if I the appelais fell principle when someone something risquait of aller evil . 
i irais until at say that the Senate to the Canada not has never strokes of employé also loyal that Richard Greene . 
little importait them pressure , what who him importait , what guardian that everyone works well streets bearer place and non not them concerns of ses occupants , breaching that fût their party . 
i cannot the ai never seen losing patience or her sense of the humour , contrairement at moi . 
i regret that he ait decided to us quitter , but I know that dapper family réelle - Ethel , Lesley and Steven - arranged ravie of Welfare the centre of his attention . 
i veux ensure at Richard that we serons always friends . 
i him adresse all condolences meilleurs vows yeas them nouveaux challenges and Oceans nouvelles aventures that royal life him contingency . 
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs : 
honourable senators , when Richard Greene is arrivé here fell 1956 , he faisait part of a nouveau group of senators who comprenait of them people commentator Chubby Power , David Croll , Hartland Molson , Muriel McQueen Fergusson and mon father , Harold Connolly . 
bye partir of the moment where he has began at travailler streets unabated enceinte , I ai began yeas ma share at venir visiter unabated enceinte , car I venais stalkers with mon father at the surveillance of ses premières years here . 
i ignore if Richard the knows , but what is at cause of moi that series Cadillac noire fell has frappé series another appeared the entrée of the Senate when Act wife of the senator Basha has insisté yeas that I conduise Act Cadillac of the senator Basha . 
him and moi we rappelons that at the époque , he rereads Partnerships still the foreign travaux of sculpture fell surveillance streets them couloirs . 
til montait and démontait them échafaudages and the Government day at the lendemain apparaissait series nouvelle gargouille . 
what are them cripple that I ai fell activist that jeune daughter of 12 at 3:15 years errant autour of bearer place . 
i sharing these cripple with Richard Greene . 
honourable senators , he rereads has a link Special between the station of Leader Deputy of the government at the Senate and the station occupé by Richard - what is - at - say until at the announcement of dapper retirement . 
each day , normally autour of 10 or 11 hours , Richard Greene arrivait streets the office of the Leader Deputy with them " scroll " . 
much of senators ignorent what that what is , but what are these longs bouts of papier that tiennent the Leader Deputy of the government and the Opposition of the Opposition . 
they indiquent what who paving apply produire streets unabated enceinte . 
i me assoyais with Richard and we décidions if confirms convenait yeas unabated journée - là . 
by confirms , I veux say that Michelle MacDonald , mon adjointe , Partnerships grandfather plaisir at chercher them mistakes of Richard J 
we cannot fell trouvions not very often , but when we the faisions , we ourselves amusions of the fact that the document not authorized not arrivé Subcommittee series form parfaite commentator of habitude . 
Michelle apply joint at moi yeas say that these moments quotidiens streets mon office we manquent much . 
Richard guardian a professionnel consommé . 
he Partnerships series ability incredible of écouter , the prendre particulars of what that he Partnerships heard and the make everything what that he pouvait yeas facilitate a petit little Act life non only at the Leader Deputy and at the Leader of the government at the Senate , but also at all levels other honourable streets unabated enceinte . 
i avais need to his appui and the Hon. assistance , and he me them has donnés volontiers with affection and humour . 
i you thank yeas these years during lesquelles we awakened worked together , Richard J 
you allez we manquer . 
the Honourable Marcel Prud man : 
honourable senators , he rereads has here series intrigue that we cannot avions not standpoint . 
i believe that bearer événement has much marquéM. Greene . 
honourable senators , I ai of the evil at croire that the dean of them members of the staff to them two Houses puisse me abandonner analyzed . 
i know that after his departure I deviendrai the second largest former here , after Herb Gray , the Government another place . 
Koppel . Greene and moi awakened often voyagé and worked together . 
Koppel . Greene and his wife acclaimed been very gentils loyalty the genus of condolences soeurs at the surveillance of a trip and we analyzed devenus of bons friends . 
honourable senators , I cannot ai not préparé of notes because that I cannot voulais not that condolences commentaires prennent a ton too cc . 
Richard we manquera much , but I continues to croire that fell end of account , he not we quittera not really . 
regardez - Government now , everything souriant fell entendant them commentaires élogieux that we awakened at his regard . 
i hope sincèrement that what is what who paving arriver . 
néanmoins , run he décide of quitter réellement bearer place , I veux that he sache that yeas ma share , I him conserverai always mon friendship . 
bye the name of all levels honourable senators , I query him offer personally , at him , at his wife and at all ses friends , our meilleurs vows . 
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe 
the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization yeas Act security and health cooperation fell Europe , tenue of the 13 at the 15 October 1999 
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein : 
the history and health theory of the régionalisme economic acclaimed commitments life at Act conference of Nantes Subcommittee on leadership créateur of our bon ami Jacques Floch , MP distingué of the Assembly national Speaking . 
when Jacques , who is president of the committee of the economy of the OSCE , me has guest , fell ma quality of vice - chairman of what same committee , at describe series region unique of the Canada , aucune not me has paru more attrayante that the North Heritage . 
if you regardez a globe of haut fell bas , you verrez that royal region circumpolaire is Act region Act more vast who rest still inexploitée and whose til not has not yet établie Act carte . 
you remarquerez that the America of the North and the Europe are géographiquement of proches neighbours . 
odyssey a étroit bras of sea sépare them States - U.S. of health Russia , là where apply trouvait the pont continental appelé détroit of Béring . 
rappelez - you the rêve of a passage toward Act China by the north - west who animait them premiers explorateurs , at commencer by Jacques Cartier , who , he rereads has more of five centuries , run is embarqué yeas the Canada ' Saint - Malo , at the north of Nantes , where has strokes instead our conference . 
the passage of the North - western , who traverse the sommet of the globe , is term of 2200 at 2900 miles nautiques , suivant Act road exacte . 
bye title of coprésident of the Group Inter Canada - U.S. - U.S. , I ai attended at series conference at Washington at the surveillance of laquelle the senator Murkowski of the Alaska , our coprésident validate , has brossé a tableau enthousiasmant of health vision that he Partnerships esquissée at our meeting of Quebec , more earlier unabated year . 
he has proposed that the Canada and Oceans States - U.S. unissent their efforts yeas create a link ferroviaire north - south between the Alaska , the Yukon and health British - British , until at Act border américaine , fell achevant a tronçon of 900 miles . 
the senator Murkowski has also évoqué the idea of series another Liaison ferroviaire au - delà of them coasts of the Arctique . 
unabated Liaison ferroviaire aboutirait by a tunnel Subcommittee on détroit of Béring until fell Russia continentale . 
bye bearer place , the Eurasie and the America of the North not are séparées that by series cinquantaine of miles . 
he could therefore there wheel series Liaison ferroviaire and perhaps - perhaps even routière between Act Russia , business States - U.S. and the Canada , thanks at Act technology implementation at the standpoint fell Europe yeas the tunnel Subcommittee Act Manche . 
imaginez that til puisse apply tribute to London at Paris fell train , emprunter ensuite a transsibérien at grande skating yeas traverser Act Russia until at the Pacific , franchir ensuite the détroit of Béring yeas achieve the Alaska , descendre quickly toward the south fell passant by the Yukon and health British - British until at Vancouver , puis filer toward the south until at Hollywood or , toward the is , until at York York or Halifax Act Act Coast Atlantic . 
everyone confirms arranged possible , économiquement , at the beginning of the next century . 
confirms could transformer Act plate - form stratégique of the economy World and modify profondément them relations strategic and Economic . 
i tiens at thank the nouveau Jacques Floch , the France , the us wheel incités at conceive a grandfather bill septentrional yeas the XXIe century , a bill which suscitera of nouveaux partnerships Economic yeas the most grandfather well - all levels residents of health planet . 
i profite of unabated opportunity yeas souhaiter at all levels senators a happy nouveau millennium . 
these Canadiennes who acclaimed marqué our history 
the Honourable Lucie pin : 
honourable senators , the century who faces achève has been witness the importants changes yeas them Canadiennes streets toutes them sphères of activité . 
these changes not auraient not been possibles without them efforts inlassables of several women really exceptionnelles ; the foreign women who never acclaimed not strokes afraid of travailler inlassablement yeas obtain Act justice social and the innover despite the fortes oppositions . 
fell activist that corporation , we their devons much . 
bye Act veille of the nouveau millennium , he not is that fair to them remind at our souvenir and the their tribute tribute . 
fault of time , I cannot saurais appoint everything the world . 
if I cannot fell nomme today today that few - unes , ma sincère recognition paving at toutes them Canadiennes who acclaimed served Act cause of the equality of them women at the surveillance of the century who faces achève . 
we victories unabated year ' soixante - tenth anniversary of the affair " person " . 
impossible to parler of evolution of them women without mention these five célèbres Canadiennes : 
Irene Parlby , Nellie McClung , Emily Murphy , Henrietta Muir Edwards and Louise McKinney , who acclaimed amené the committee judicial of the Council private at déclarer that the word " person " streets the Acte of the America of the North britannique incluait them women and that foreign women pouvaient perhaps nommées at the Senate . 
and that say to Agnes MacPhail , first woman at perhaps élue at Act House of them Commons fell 1921 ? 
without she and without these five célèbres Canadiennes , combien of between us petitioners here today today ? 
Ms Thérèse Casgrain has been Act first Canadienne at diriger a party politics . 
the 1942 at 1962 , she has been élue nine once streets of them legislatures legislatures fédérale and Provincial . 
Jeanette Viviane Corbiere Lavell is series another woman exceptionnelle who has 3.26 dapper life at defend the right to them women aboriginal . 
fell 1971 , she has contesté the article 12 of health Act Act them Indiens , who faisait losing the status of Indien at them women aboriginal who épousaient of them non - native . 
health Court Supreme rejeta dapper requête , but Sandra Lovelace décida of porter the affair appeared Act Commission of them rights of health human of them Nations Nations , and health Act Act them Indiens has been modifiée fell 1985 . 
he rereads has also Madeleine Parent who , during 40 years , has been active streets the movement syndical at the Quebec . 
fell 1942 , she has chaired at Act syndicalisation of them usines of fabrication of Clothing Dominion Textiles who employaient mostly of them women . 
he not tangibly not forget also gun Senator Yvette Rousseau , who has been series of them pionnières of health syndicalisation streets them usines of fabrication of the vêtement . 
he not tangibly not forget Kay Livingston , patron fondatrice of health Canadian Negro Women' Maclean Association , who has been Act cheville ouvrière of the Prime congrès attain of them women noires at Toronto . 
the congrès existe still today today , a témoignage sustainable of ses efforts . 
between other héroïnes Forces , mentionnonsElizabeth Bagshaw , the Dr. Marion Powell and the docteurLise Fortier . 
the Dr. Bagshaw has been directrice of health first clinique of control of them births at the Canada . 
she has dirigé Act clinique of the Ontario , illégalement , the 1932 at 1966 . 
the Dr. Powell has done to even at Toronto . 
yeas dapper share , the docteurLise Fortier has établi Act first clinique of planning of them births at the Quebec and has lutté inlassablement yeas obtain the right at the free choice yeas them women at the Canada . 
nombreuses are them women exceptionnelles who acclaimed marqué our history , that what authorized streets them domaines of health policy , the foreign care of health health or the foreign rights of health human . 
toutes til fact Evidence of courage , the tenacity , the leadership and the talent . 
without thin , the Canada not serait not Act democracy vivante , prospère and copy that he is today today . 
espérons that the XXIe century fingertips autant of héroïnes that unabated dernière decade . 
and puissent these paroles of Nellie McClung inspirer our héroïnes of tomorrow : 
the Senate 
the état of health of the senator Willie Adams 
the Honourable Isobel Finnerty : 
honourable senators , I am very heureuse of consigned that the senator Willie Adams , who has subi series SOWIND chirurgicale importante , yesterday , run remet extremely well and , espérons - Government , arranged of Return soon . 
the pronostic is excellent . 
visitors of Gallery 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I you observance Act presence at our gallery of health wife deRichard Greene , Ethel , and the their son , Steve . 
honourable senators , I know that foreign Présidents not are not autorisés at make series allocution , but , fell unabated opportunity , I voudrais thank personally Richard , a ami with which I ai worked during more of 29 years . 
routine PROCEEDINGS 
security and services of Intelligence 
depository of health response to the government at the report of the committee Special 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to déposer , with a plaisir that partageront surely the other honourable when they Act liront , health response to the government at the report of the committee Special of the Senate Act Act security and Oceans services of Intelligence . 
health situation actuelle of the regime financier Heritage and international 
Presented of the report of the committee of them Banking and the Government trade 
the Honourable E . Leo Kolber , President of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Banking and the Government trade , présente the report suivant : 
the Thursday 16 December 1999 
the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Banking and the Government trade has the honour to introduce his 
TROISIÈME REPORT 
your Comité , who has been authorized by the Senate Committee Tuesday , 23 November 1999 at examiner Act situation actuelle of the regime financier Heritage and international and at make report at the most later the 31 December 2000 , demand respectfully that the Comité authorized authorized at retenir them services of lawyers , the advisors techniques and the everything another staff jugé necessary , analyzed that at apply déplacer of a place at the another at the Canada and at the abroad at them purposes of his inquiry . 
the budget fut presented at the Comité Standing of health Economy Internal , the foreign Budgets and the Government administration the jeudi16 December 1999 . Dans his second report , the Comité of health Economy Internal has noté that he procède at series study of health situation budgétaire of them committees of the Senate and done Act recommendation that 6 / 12 of them fund accorded soient libérés of here the 10 February 2000 . 
what report fut adopted by the Senate Committee Tuesday 14 December 1999 . 
respectfully submitted , 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when étudierons - we the report ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Kolber , the study of the report is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement . ) 
Economy Internal , Budgets and Administration 
depository of the third report of the committee 
with Act leave of the Senate , I voudrais say here few mots . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
leave granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Rompkey : 
honourable senators , I tiens at souhaiter Act welcome at Gary Keefe Brien streets his nouveau station . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the senator Rompkey : 
Gary not has not need to Presented . 
he we sert fidèlement and well . 
he not has the air of nothing , but his humilité hiding series grande experience and a grandfather savoir . 
he is true streets his case that he tangibly apply méfier of the water who dort . 
Koppel . Gary Keefe Brien , Ph . D . , is professor of métier and is notamment a spécialiste of John F . Kennedy . 
what is a enseignant . 
he participe at a certain number of activity extraparlementaires yeas the most grandfather honour to our assemblée . 
by - dessus everything , Gary we took fourni a service hors pair . 
what is series of these individuals yeas lesquelles the word service has a sense . 
i ai been impressionné by the souci whose fact Evidence Gary streets the framework of them services that he we fournit . 
he wants that foreign things soient faites commentator he tangibly and he not ménage nil effort at unabated end . 
i know that he retain unabated attitude streets his nouveau station . 
i you souhaite la welcome streets your nouveau station , Gary , and I you offers our congratulations . 
permettez - moi of Cartier series history apocryphe . 
i cannot you dirai not who fell is the author , but I me am shirts say that at the moment of the arrival of Richard at the Senate , he rereads Partnerships Act place a habit yeas Act human who comblerait the station . 
what guardian a habit yeas a man of low taille and the eyeballs damned constitution . 
Richard Partnerships everything what that he fallait yeas hériter of bearer habit . 
he has obtenu the station and he is with us since what time . 
by conséquent , til can say that at the Senate , streets the case of Richard , the habit fact the moine . 
the senator Carstairs has said that Richard took connu a certain number of prises of bec , whose series at laquelle she has also been mêlée . 
i am convaincu that Richard took strokes knowledge of more of series prise of bec streets unabated House at the incorrigible of them years . 
he is arrivé that the éminents jurists of the country apply présentent here yeas Act ceremony without wheel the Authorized écrite pertinente and Richard them has renvoyés yeas that they aillent apply Act procurer . 
Ça , what is the fiscal of the power . 
Richard , I you transmets also them congratulations to Gerry and the Nicky . 
honourable senators , I widow also congratulate them greffiers at the Bureau who acclaimed accédé at the other positions . 
we their souhaitons Act welcome streets their nouvelles duties . 
we them félicitons and we them remercions of their work streets the past . 
we savons that they continueront at us fournir a job of upper quality streets the future . 
i tiens also at thank toutes them persons who travaillent yeas we , here commentator elsewhere , and who tiennent our dossiers . 
we them remercions of the service of upper quality that they we acclaimed fourni . 
i souhaite at chacune of between thin and at all levels honourable senators ' very joyeuses fêtes . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , health leave is - she granted at the Honourable Senator Nolin of prendre Act parole ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin : 
honourable senators , I query also , at title of vice - chairman of your committee of health Economy Internal , the foreign Budgets and the Government administration , souhaiter Act welcome at Gary Keefe Brien and blunt Act chance necessary yeas accomplir what work . 
i organize enough well Gary yeas wheel worked with him at the surveillance of them five dernières years at the committee of health Economy Internal . 
what is a man very effective , by against , very réservé . 
commentator the Tisserant the senator Rompkey , derrière what visage sombre apply hiding certainly a man effective and joyeux . 
i me joins therefore at the senator Rompkey yeas him souhaiter good luck analyzed that at ses colleagues on the Bureau who acclaimed accédé recently at the nouvelles responsibilities . 
health Act Act Act defence national Position Act Act the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques Le Code criminal 
report of the committee 
the Honourable Lorna Milne , patron of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional , présente the report suivant : 
the Thursday 16 December 1999 
the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs legal and Constitutional has the honour to introduce his 
TROISIÈME REPORT 
your Comité , auquel has been déféré the Chapter of Bill S - 10 , Act amend Act Act Act Act defence national , health Act Act the identification by foreign empreintes génétiques and the Code criminal has , pursuant at the Order of referred to the jeudi18 November 1999 , examined ledit bill to Bill and fell fact now report with them amendments suivants : 
page 18 , section 19 : 
has ) Substituer , at Act line 25 , what who suit : 
" 19 . 
b ) Ajouter , after Act line 38 , what who suit : 
respectfully soumise , 
health patron , 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when étudierons - we what report ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Milne , the study of the report is inscrite at the Order of the day to health next postponement . ) 
health Act Act Act statistique Position Act Act them Archives nationales of the Canada 
bill to Bill Amend - Première Reading 
the Honourable Lorna Milne présente the bill to Bill S - 15 , Act amend Act Act Act Act statistique and health Act Act them Archives nationales ( documents of rencensement ) . 
( the bill to Bill is read series first once . ) 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , when lirons - we what Bill of Bill series second once ? 
( Act Act motion of the senator Milne , health second reading of the bill to Bill is inscrite at the Order of the day to health postponement of the mardi8 February 2000 . 
depository of the report of the Group Heritage of the Union Inter Act Act 102e conference Inter tenue at Berlin , Germany 
the Honourable Sheila Finestone : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to déposer the report of the Group Heritage of the Union Inter , who has représenté the Canada at la102e conference Inter tenue at Berlin , fell Germany , the Government 10 at the 16 October . 
depository of the report of the Group Heritage of the Union Inter Act Act 54e session of the Assembly générale of them Nations Nations tenue at York York 
the Honourable Sheila Finestone : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to déposer the report of the Group Heritage of the Union Inter who has représenté the Canada at Act 54e session of the Assembly générale of them Nations Nations tenue at York York du25 at the 27 October 1999 . 
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe 
depository of the report of health delegation canadienne at Act conference of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization yeas Act security and health cooperation fell Europe tenue of the 13 at the 15 October 1999 
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein : 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to déposer , streets them two languages Languages , the report of health delegation canadienne of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe entitled : " Document - Nantes " , who door Act Act second conference of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization yeas Act security and health cooperation fell Europe , tenue of the 13 at the 15 October 1999 at Nantes fell France , where he has been question of them process of cooperation economic infrarégionale fell Europe at Act light of them nouveaux challenges at relever . 
the Association Inter Canada - France 
depository of the report of health vingt - ninth meeting Annual of health delegation canadienne tenue of the 8 at the 15 September 1999 
the Honourable rald - A . 
honourable senators , I ai the honour to déposer the report of health vingt - neuvièmeréunion Annual of health delegation canadienne del' Association Inter Canada - France , who has strokes instead at Montreal , Laval , Ottawa , Vancouver and Victoria , the Government 8 au15 September 1999 . 
the Union Inter 
report of the Group Heritage of the Union Inter Act Act 102e conference Inter tenue at Berlin , fell Germany - Notice of inquiry 
the Honourable Sheila Finestone : 
honourable senators , I gives notice that at Act second journée of health next postponement , the 8 February 2000 , I attirerai the attention of the Senate Act the report of the Group Heritage of the Union Inter Act la102e conference Inter tenue at Berlin of the 9 au16 October 1999 . 
PERIOD PERIOD PERIOD 
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire 
the fate of them farmers céréaliers of the West - Possibility response at the report of the committee of health House of them Commons 
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
i ai been very déçu of lire what morning streets the National Post that the Prime Minister apply penchera Act Act question of health crisis streets the Agriculture only after Act period of them fêtes . 
i pose the foreign questions at what topic since a 2000 and half . 
transport premiers ministers provinciaux and even Dennis Mills now ? and I him fell know gré - indiquent that they submariners attirer the attention of them citadins of Toronto at the moyen of series journée of secours . 
the committee of the Agriculture of health House of them Commons withdrew is rendu streets them Prairies and I ai participated at two - ses eight rencontres . 
what committee has done to the excellent work . 
he has recognized that he existe of graves problems , that the Agriculture is fell crisis and that the program ACRA not gives not them results escomptés . 
the committee has he fact share of ses constatations at the Prime Minister and at the cabinet ? 
i believe understand that royal House of them Commons not reprendra probably not ses travaux before the 7 February . 
the committee has he fact of them recommendations at the Prime Minister and at the cabinet at Act subsequently of what that he has constaté streets them Prairies ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I dirai commentator the Honourable Senator that the committee of health House of them Commons has done a excellent work during that he guardian streets them Prairies . 
he rereads has heard from them opinions fortes whose he has done share at the Prime Minister , at the minister of the Agriculture and at the other ministers . 
the Prime Minister has strokes the opportunity to parler at them members of the cabinet of health tournée of the committee streets them Prairies and he is very at the courant of the problem . 
he remembered can that he not there ait not , commentator he has been said streets the article , the meeting formelle of them premiers ministers of here Christmas , but nothing not allows the supposer that the Prime Minister has decided to allegiances what problem Act series voie of garage . 
the senator Gustafson : 
honourable senators , til can apply ask breaching degree of emergency Act situation devra achieve before that the Prime Minister apply fell occupies . 
the Prime Minister has he rencontré the committee ? 
i étais Secretary Parliamentary of the Prime Minister Mulroney and he not fell fallait not activist that confirms yeas organiser at them people who specialist a grave problem series rencontre with him . 
what committee has done a wonderful work - and I étais là yeas the see . 
he has recognized that the program ACRA not fonctionnait not , that he fallait entièrement réorienter the sector Farm hits and that what guardian a problem attain very grave . 
i cannot dispel understand why he not réussit not at obtain series rencontre with the Prime Minister . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
based breaching terrain of golf is - he ? 
what is what that he tangibly découvrir . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I ignore quelles rencontres acclaimed avoided wheel instead between the Prime Minister and Oceans members of what committee . 
i know however that foreign members of the committee , individuellement or fell group , laughed fact share of their opinion at the Prime Minister , at the minister of the Agriculture and at the other also . 
understandings at them arrangements who uncovered commitments yeas Act tenue of series rencontre formelle , I cannot fell know nothing yeas the moment . 
i am convaincu that the Prime Minister connaît them opinions of them members of the committee and that he remembered occupera of the problem at the surveillance of them prochaines weeks and the foreign prochains months , even apply he not there has not to rencontre formelle of them premiers ministers . 
transport difficulties of them céréaliculteurs of the West 
the Honourable David Tkachuk : 
honourable senators , I ai series question supplementary at poser at bearer regard . 
if health mother deDavid Milgaard essayait of rencontrer the Prime Minister Present rather than the precedent , I think that David Milgaard croupirait always fell prison . 
the foreign Senators : 
the senator Tkachuk : 
eh well , the time is venu of hausser the ton streets unabated pièce ! 
the senator Graham : 
soyez reasonable . 
posez series question . 
the senator Tkachuk : 
i the am . 
the what side - ci of the enceinte , we awakened been very patients . 
we posons these issues since a 2000 and half . 
what not is not commentator if we cannot the avions fact that evening . 
i the ai fact moi also . 
even the foreign senators ' fell opposite the acclaimed fact ; what is the case , notamment , the Government Senator Sparrow . 
we awakened posé unabated question at maintes occasions and health Gotcha response that we ayons obtenue , what is : " We allons examiner confirms . 
perhaps - perhaps that the program fact défaut . " 
everyone the world knows at the Canada that the program fact défaut . 
the Prime Minister apply abstiendra he ' accorder of them loans and the foreign grants streets dapper riding during Act period of them fêtes or continuera he ' ouvrir toutes grandes them vannes of the Treasury public yeas dapper riding during that he them fermera yeas them Prairies ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , the Prime Minister demeurera very occupé with all levels problems Economic of the country and he not fingertips that very little of loisir damned that authorized Act period of the year . 
i cannot veux not diminuer Act gravité of health situation with laquelle are at them prises them farmers , streets them Prairies notamment . 
however , I tiens at remind at them honourable senators that the government apply is engagé at fournir series assistance non négligeable . 
the blunt évidence , the program - commentator we the awakened said at the surveillance of the debate at the Senate ? not gives not them results escomptés . 
we ourselves impotent engagés at the réexaminer and at veiller at what that the money authorized versé more quickly at them farmers . 
fell outre , since mon arrival , 170 million for $ of more acclaimed been affectés at the program . 
the Prime Minister Romanow , who souhaite tellement series assistance Supplementary , has chosen to no not apply engager at verser the same amount same if the entente Act them fund additional introduces that royal province doit the make . 
i cannot fell am not course , but I think that the Prime Minister Romanow has presented a budget everything recently . 
whereupon that he fell authorized , the government dd not seems not wheel prévu of accorder of nouveaux appropriation . 
he remembered contente of fell réclamer at the government federal . 
Koppel . Romanow apply vante since few years already of ses excédents budgétaires successifs . 
he fell is very proud , and at fair title of elsewhere . 
however , run he wants aborder the problem , he faudra that he remembered mette at table him also . 
transport difficulties of them céréaliculteurs of the West - Ex attente of series response to the Prime Minister 
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk : 
honourable senators , I ai series question supplementary yeas the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
the Prime Minister Romanow has been avisé , at mon notice , the no not invest davantage streets a mauvais program . 
i estimated by conséquent that royal response donnée by the Leader of the government not dédouane not what last . 
health Saskatchewan souhaiterait that the Prime Minister commence by clearly indiquer that royal question the preoccupation . 
series telle statement convaincrait Act population of health province that the Canada prend at heart ses interests . 
ensuite , he devra indiquer that the foreign correctifs uncovered apportés . 
bye what day , we awakened strokes right at them speech nobles of them ministers and other MPs , but the Prime Minister not fell has certainly not done series priority . 
if the Leader of the government not apply méprend Act them intentions futures of the Prime Minister , Robbie Act meilleure something that he puisse make at the opportunity to Christmas what is the us give a signe tangible . 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I am something little fell désaccord with the approach généreuse of the senator at the hook of the Prime Minister of health Saskatchewan . Je not sure not a expert fell Act matière , but til me said that foreign provinces acclaimed participated at the établissement of these criteria . 
he rereads has strokes a process and he remembered agissait of a program conjoint . 
he is true that the program not works not commentator he remembered doit . 
we awakened discussed the confirms here and at the other gloomy . 
the program not is not also effective that he the should and the minister of the Agriculture has déclaré that foreign flaws devraient perhaps examinées and corrigées . 
the senator Tkachuk : 
a government ' coalition ! 
the senator Boudreau : 
i cannot ai not them figures fell main , but I me remind wheel read that the government ' health Saskatchewan Partnerships reduced the way importante the assistance apportée streets the sector of the Agriculture . 
these réductions étaient of the Order of 60 à70p. cent Act ten years . 
i think that he wouldn incombe at the least the say that he is loan at débloquer of them fund . 
the government federal has 3.26 170 million for $ at the program . 
if what program Partnerships prévu a financing of contrepartie , the government federal aurait avoided say that he not allait not verser these 170 million for $ at least that the Prime Minister Romanow not verse series somme équivalente . 
confirms aurait been compatible with the program conjoint . 
the government federal not fell has nothing fact . 
the Prime Minister Romanow not has not prévu a financing and he not has not offert of other fund at ma knowledge . 
the senator Andreychuk : 
commentator ma mother the dirait , til not répare not series inequity by series another inequity . 
if the Prime Minister Romanow not done not what who faces ombudsman or not has not done what who faces imposait , what not is not series excuse yeas the Prime Minister of the Canada . 
he is responsible at the hook of everyone the country . 
we awakened need to a signal of health share of the Prime Minister and the person to another yeas that foreign people sachent that foreign problems of health Saskatchewan are importants and that he entend apply there attaquer . 
confirms permettrait streets series large measure of improving the fate of them people of health Saskatchewan whose the future is incertain . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I comprends Act préoccupation soulevée by the senator Andreychuk . 
i am persuadé that what problem which afflige them farmers to them Prairies preoccupation the Prime Minister . 
commentator I the ai fact streets the past , I vais certainly make share at the Prime Minister and at the minister of the Agriculture of them discussions which acclaimed strokes instead streets unabated enceinte . 
transport Foreign Intergovernmental 
the Ontario ? Position Act Act Act restructuring régionale - Possibility determination of the power legal of health city of Ottawa 
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier : 
honourable senators , the council municipal of Ottawa has discussed and passed yesterday series motion demandant at Act province of the Ontario ' désigner officially bilingue Act city of Ottawa who arranged créée the 2000 next . 
according a section paru streets the newspaper Le Droit today today , health nouvelle city not fingertips not the right to apply désigner bilingue . 
fell effect , series decision to health Court Superior of the Ontario aurait statué , fell 1986 , streets the case of Kapuskasing , that unabated city not Partnerships anguishes the right anguishes the power to apply désigner officially bilingue . 
what is therefore a another pavé streets Act mare ! 
the genus share , health law 25 , habilitant Act restructuring of health nouvelle city of Ottawa , is silencieuse Act Act question . 
i recommends that royal bill habilitante établisse and désigne Act quoted the Ottawa officially bilingue fell French and fell English . 
health province aurait responded that the nouveau council who arranged elected , fell November 2000 , fingertips the power to decide to the status linguistic of health nouvelle quoted the Ottawa . 
the minister may - he we say if the Prime Minister of the Ontario joue at the fou streets unabated affair fell sachant very well that royal nouvelle quoted the Ottawa not can not apply déclarer officially bilingue , with the equality of them rights fell English and fell French ? 
the minister may - he ensure unabated House that he cherchera at make éclaircir unabated question by foreign jurists and allegiances end at the uncertainty and at Act confusion créées by Act decision deM. Harris ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , health issue soulevée by the Honourable Senator Gauthier has been scope at mon attention more earlier today today . 
i ai avoided me renseigner at what topic . 
health nouvelle municipally , commentator toutes them municipalities of health province and , fell fact , the Government country , relève fell effect legally of the government dd and is assujettie at Act bill provinciale . 
she exerce his autorité streets the framework constitutional . 
unabated autorité him is conférée by series bill provinciale . 
the afternoon condolences connaissances and condolences informations , health nouvelle municipally of Ottawa , commentator blunt another municipally of health province of the Ontario , not has anguishes Act jurisdiction anguishes the autorité , fell vertu of health law which gouverne them municipalities , yeas apply déclarer bilingue . 
he existe series bill fell Ontario Act Act Benefit - services fell French who allows at them municipalities of offer some services bilingues by arrêté municipal . 
fell fact , health municipally can decide that the foreign services uncovered offerts streets them two languages streets a case or streets the another . 
however , confirms not him gives not the right to apply déclarer officially city bilingue . 
til me has said that what is Act province of the Ontario who détient what authority . 
the ancienne city of Ottawa , if I dispel the appeler analyzed , has acted fell vertu of unabated bill and the regulations municipal yeas offer to them services bilingues . 
til me has explained that these services bilingues resteront fell place until at what that the foreign regulations municipal changent confirms . 
determine whether justice nouvelle city of Ottawa arranged officially bilingue relève of health Gotcha jurisdiction of health province of the Ontario . 
the Honourable Serge Joyal : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government and door Act Act same question . 
when I ai strokes the opportunity to prendre Act parole at the Senate unabated week , our colleague , the senator Grafstein , has spoke of health possibility that the government federal recoure at his autorité Act the administration régionale of health Capital national or at the power to cancellation . 
i étais of opinion that royal seconde proposal not serait not Act welcome commentator Prime choice . 
yesterday , the minister of them Foreign Intergovernmental has déclaré rejecting : 
we devons examiner them afford constitutionnels whose we disposons yeas help at régler Act situation streets them circumstances actuelles . 
according the newspaper The Toronto Star of today today , the foreign experts of health Constitution estiment that the government federal could vouloir apply inspirer of series decision to health Court Supreme of the Canada rendue streets them years 60 and him accordant the power to abdicate when he remembered notional of questions liées at Act Capital national . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate demandera he at Act Minister of health Howe and prosecutor General of the Canada if , fell vertu of health decision to health Court Supreme of the Canada , the government federal can invoquer his power General of abdicate Act to them questions liées at the foreign problems nationaux , there including at Act Capital national , yeas make the Day nouvelle city of Ottawa series city bilingue ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
i am course that all levels honourable senators préfèrent that what problem authorized résolu streets the framework of series intervention claire of health province of the Ontario visant at déclarer Act Capital national officially bilingue . 
the government has indiqué that he analysis them choice possibles . 
aucune decision not has yet been prise at bearer regard . 
til can still espérer that the Prime Minister Harris and his government interviendront of way pertinente . 
sinon , I am course that I dispel transmettre Act request for the Honourable Senator Joyal and ask at the minister compétent of apply pencher also Act unabated possibility if she never is not already referred the study . 
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau : 
honourable senators , the senator has posé Act question that I avais fell tête . 
the status of city bilingue represents a little more than the obtention of services bilingues at Ottawa . 
Ottawa , health Capital of our Nation , doit envoyer a message clear everywhere at the country fell rose a status bilingue . 
i souligne with strength that what status of city bilingue represents more than the obtention of services fell French . 
the senator Boudreau : 
i thank the Honourable Senator of what commentaire . 
bye bearer regard , health municipally not has not to power . 
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein : 
honourable senators , ma question Supplementary apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
i ai posé series question at the senator Joyal at the topic of the power to révocation . 
he has answered and I ai since lors discovered that the power to révocation has been utilisé regularly until at he rereads has approximately series quarantaine of years . 
i believe understand that he is tombé fell disrepute . 
he existe of them points of standpoint constitutionnels Act unabated question , but he is always prévu streets Act Constitution . 
the Leader of the government at the Senate may - he ask at the prosecutor General of the Canada if , in extremis , what who according bon number of between us seems perhaps the case streets unabated situation , the power to révocation could or non perhaps adopted yeas series measure legislative who , at our opinion , not concorde not with leXXIe century and the Canada ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I am convaincu that the prosecutor General analysis currently toutes them solutions possibles who palatable perhaps adoptées . 
aucune of between thin not constitue series solution privilégiée . 
the option privilégiée , what is that the government and the Prime Minister of the Ontario agissent . 
i verrai at what that unabated solution authorized also soumise at the prosecutor General . 
the Honourable Marcel Prud man : 
honourable senators , during six years at the Senate and 30 years at Act House of them Commons , I ai enough clearly exprimé ma Position Act what that is véritablement the Canada . 
streets everything country , he rereads has series Capital . 
some the appellent Act Capital national , I the appelle Act Capital fédérale because that what is series institution fédérale . 
if health Capital national apply doit of refléter the history and health diversity of our country , the Honourable Senator Hays of the Alberta , the Honourable Senator Marcel Prud man and Oceans other repositories apply there sentir at the aise . 
i ai series approach différente . 
i vais everything make yeas dépolitiser Act question ; I vais parler at a group at the Parliament torontois , the Friday 14 January , at the c9ur same of the Parliament dd . 
all levels senators emigrate intervene collectively , some fell empruntant Act voie legal and the other fell cherchant at persuade . 
finally , we devrions make understand at them Canadians that we cannot demandons not that toutes them cities soient bilingues . 
what is a another debate . 
we devrions make valoir clearly - and I saurais gré at the minister of apply express briefly là - dessus - that he rereads has series difference between the debate regarding health Capital fédérale and toutes them other matters . 
what is a debate everything at fact distinct . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , I screwed at them honourable senators , commentator I the ai already mentioned the elsewhere , that ses mots very éloquents Act Act question , I pourrais them make miens . 
the foreign points of standpoint exprimés here at what topic he remembered dégage a certain number of things . 
premièrement , business senators prennent very at the sérieux unabated affair who revêt a interest capital yeas our country . 
deuxièmement , what not is not series question of debate partisan . 
transport senators ' Affairs two sides of health House apply are prononcés là - dessus and I think that we awakened démontré nettement that he not apply notional not to series question of debate partisan . 
troisièmement , confirms pertains unabated city fell activist that she is Act Capital national or , commentator said : Senator , health Capital fédérale . 
i ai exprimé mon standpoint of standpoint Act Act question and I continuerai of the make . 
transport opinions of them honourable senators are well actresses and are at prendre at the sérieux . 
i am convaincu that the government business sharing . 
the Honourable rald - A . 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
if series study is introductory by the prosecutor General of the Canada Act the status bilingue of health Capital of the Canada , not pourrions - we not also And the article 16 of health Constitution regarding directly Act Capital of the Canada and also the power résiduel of the Parliament Heritage , at the article 91 , fell vertu duquel some powers are donnés and reconnus by Act jurisprudence yeas Act region of health Capital national of the Canada . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , the prosecutor General notional fell activist that Main lawyer of the government ' s Canada . 
commentator the ferait everything lawyer compétent , she expecting them options and fell présente series series at the government fell espérant that aucune of these options not arranged necessary and that the problem apply réglera otherwise . 
i me commits at transmettre the essentiel of them remarques of the Honourable Senator at Mrs. the prosecutor General . 
i am convaincu that she étudiera toutes them options disponibles , commentator everything lawyer conscientious the ferait at the name of a client . 
the Honourable Sheila Finestone : 
honourable senators , ma question apply adresse at the Leader of the government at the Senate . 
account tenu of health situation and the Government obligation to the government ' désigner Ottawa officially bilingue , unabated désignation inclurait - she everything the principle of equality at them termes of the status cc , there including the equality Act the Mifflin Plan them rights and privileges , and non only Act gerrymandering of health language ? 
health issue pertains the expression same . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , the blunt évidence , business ramifications of the status entièrement bilingue petitioners clarifiées by the court . 
i prends bearer commitment non only at the hook of the Honourable Senator Finestone , but also the foreign other honourable senators who are intervenus Act the topic . 
transport transport 
the agreement Act the Administration of the airport international of Halifax - Ex obligation to the government federal - contrôler Act nature acide of the ardoise 
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall : 
honourable senators , ma question at the Leader of the government at the Senate is suscitée by foreign composition formulées regarding the arrangement between the government ' s Canada and the Administration interim Report on airport international of Halifax who prendra officially the entière responsibility to the airport fell February . 
the aucuns craignent a problem which , at what that I croyais , Partnerships been réglé at the beginning of them negotiations . 
ma question door Act them measures which repositories perhaps prises regularly yeas control Act nature acide of the ardoise at the airport and foremost autour . 
commentator the minister ' knows , the airport apply situe Act series colline of where the water coule streets of grandchildren bassins , what who may give instead at some dangers . 
the minister has he release with them responsables of health nouvelle administration of the airport at the topic of unabated question at the hook of laquelle they estiment that foreign authorities fédérales are revenues Act their parole ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I am at the courant of health situation whose parle the Honourable Senator . 
these negotiations apply déroulent commentator toutes negotiations . 
til Shipping of them two sides , what is donnant donnant . 
til avance dapper Position , til fact of them compromise . 
i ai spoke at them responsables of the administration aéroportuaire after that they aient accepted and signed the agreement . 
i cannot think not that he ait been amended after wheel been signed . 
the senator Forrestall : 
honourable senators , he is therefore exact that foreign 700 40,000 Expenditures who acclaimed been convenus yeas prendre of them measures correctives Cutbacks always part of the agreement , that , commentator til the prétend , the federal not continuera not at assumer Act responsibility to them dommages who risquent of subvenir at the future , and that unabated question has been réglée ? 
is - he exact that series entente at bearer regard is fell place and that if someone something capitalists arriver , what serait between now and health mid - February , when Act prise fell charge deviendra official ? 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , autant that I the sache , the agreement couvre of them questions telles that the passif environnemental and health responsibility to them costs of functioning , there including ceux who are reliés at the Environment . 
the essentiel , what is that the agreement that the administration and the Department of them Transport acclaimed signed visait these issues and that , at ma knowledge , he not has not been amended since that the administration the has signed . 
i am certain that , commentator what is the case streets toutes negotiations , the agreement not contains not everyone what that voulait the administration and contains more than what that the Department of them Transport guardian loan at céder . 
however , autant that I the sache , business two parties acclaimed signed a agreed définitif who rule them questions soulevées by the Honourable Senator . 
i ignore apply he them rule at Act satisfaction of all , but he them rule . 
he has been signed by foreign two parties . 
the senator Forrestall : 
honourable senators , the minister not is therefore not fell measure of us say if them 700 40,000 Expenditures by 2000 uncovered disponibles yeas prendre them measures correctives nécessaires . 
i am course that what is là where fell are them things at the hour actuelle . 
the senator Boudreau : 
honourable senators , unabated brève rencontre has strokes instead he rereads has three weeks or more . 
yeas autant that I me souvienne , health somme of 700 40,000 Expenditures appeared serve at régler what problem is incluse streets the entente . 
i vérifierai them data yeas perhaps certain of what that I avance , but I me souviens very specifically that , when I ai rencontré the group , the entente Partnerships been signée . 
she traitait of toutes them questions and I cannot believe not that til ait amended unabated entente since lors . 
transport Peoples aboriginal 
request for Answer at the report of the committee Act them Veterans Veterans aboriginal 
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk : 
honourable senators , I brevity the government ' wheel responded fell time opportun at the report of the committee Special of the Senate Act Act security and Oceans services of Intelligence . 
we consacrons of longues hours at Act rédaction of our reports fell bearer place and the government business consulte often yeas élaborer dapper policy self . 
however , when pouvons - we espérer recevoir Act response that we avions demandée at the report of the committee sénatorial of them Peoples aboriginal Act them Veterans Veterans aboriginal ? 
the senator Fairbairn guardian Leader of the government at the Senate at the époque of health Presented of what report . 
she we Partnerships assuré that we Act recevrions car the government there travaillait . 
well - Provincial Veterans Veterans aboriginal are dead since Act Presented of the report . 
health response to the government is extremely importante yeas ceux who restent fell life . 
he is primordial of not not forget these people who acclaimed overburdened their lives fell péril yeas ensure our security . 
when recevrons - we Act response to the government ? 
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) : 
honourable senators , what is Act first once that til door unabated question at mon attention . 
i vais communiquer with the minister responsible and try to obtain series response at Act question of the Honourable Senator . 
i the obtiendrai probably at the surveillance of the congé and I devrais power Act him fournir at Act resuming the foreign travaux . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I regret , but Act period of them questions is now terminée . 
orders OF THE 
bill to Bill of appropriation No. 3 yeas 1999 - 2000 
third reading 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , what is very well that he remembered authorized elapsed enough to time between Act Reading at the phase of the report and health third reading of the bill to Bill C - 21 car confirms we took licences of jeter a last regard Act what Bill of Bill No. 
i attirerais the attention of them honourable senators Act the fact that what Bill of Bill apply intitule : " Act Convey octroi at Majesty Majesty of appropriation yeas the administration Public fédérale during the fiscal apply ending the 31 March 2000 " . 
the article 6 , at Act page 3 to what Bill of Bill stipule that : 
[ ... ] he is possible for inscrire a credit découlant of health présente bill or the blunt another act and prévu at the Printed 2 after Act clôture of the fiscal suivant gerrymandering yeas lequel he is attribué [ ... ] 
otherwise said , the article 6 of the bill to Bill underlies at autoriser of them Estimates postérieurement at the 31 March 2000 . 
streets Act Jurisprudence Parliamentary of Beauchesne , 6e edition , he rereads has referred Act page 258 series description of them travaux of them subsides and voies and afford . 
Subcommittee Act rubrique " Considered " , at the commentaire 933 , we pouvons lire : 
a budget of spending has yeas objet of communiquer at the Parliament them proposals budgétaires and extra - budgétaires of the government yeas the fiscal at venir . 
honourable senators , the article 6 of the bill to Bill pose a problem . 
there has he at confirms series explanation simple that could we make partager a member of our committee of them finances nationales who has examiné the bill to Bill fell detail ? 
the Honourable Anne C . Cools : 
honourable senators , I thank the Honourable Senator Kinsella of dapper question . 
if I comprends well , dapper question has trait at the fact that a credit seems chevaucher two exercises . 
apply he Partnerships signalé what standpoint during Senators hearings on the committee , we aurions avoided the examiner more fell detail . 
i think that royal same something apply is produite streets the case of the last bill to Bill of appropriation and that the senator Bolduc Partnerships Robbie soulevé Act question . 
i believe that royal response to the Department guardian that the credit Partnerships been affecté streets series Gotcha year , but that foreign Estimates apply étendraient Act two years . 
if we parlons of health same something - and I believe that til we Partnerships Robbie said fell substance that what not guardian not inhabituel - confirms Partnerships the air of devenir series practice a little more courante at cause of health complexité and the Day taille of these appropriation . 
i hope that I ai responded at Act question of the senator , but I am disposée at examiner the affair more fell detail . 
i the répète , series part of health issue of the senator me has escaped . 
the senator Kinsella : 
honourable senators , Seneca the problem and Seneca the principle . 
bye Act page 31 of the bill to Bill , the Printed 2 introduces rejecting : 
the afternoon the Estimates Supplementary of them Estimates ( A ) the 1999 - 2000 , the amount accordé is the 234 733 521 Expenditures , authorized the total of them amounts of them positions of what budget figurant at Act présente Printed . 
the Printed 2 ajoute rejecting : 
impotent accordées by Act présente bill referred Majesty Majesty yeas the fiscal apply ending the 31 March 2 40,000 , pouvant perhaps imputées at the fiscal fell surveillance and at the fiscal suivant apply ending the 31 March and purposes auxquelles thin are accordées . 
confirms VI mostly the Agency of them customs and the Government income of the Canada , but Act situation existe bel and well and he tangibly apply ask if the snakes fact well - envisager series telle practice . 
i cannot tiens not at invoquer the rules at bearer regard , but the committee of them finances nationales voudra well examiner the fact that til vote a credit who doit perhaps dépensé at the most later the 31 March 2000 . 
the senator Cools : 
i am disposée at promettre at the senator Kinsella that our committee - and I puis consult the chairman , the senator Murray - examinera unabated question and the étudiera more fell detail . 
if the phenomenon seems récurrent , we devrions chercher at savoir why . 
i prends Act critique and the opinion of the senator very at the sérieux and I me commits at me preoccupation of unabated affair . 
honourable senators , yesterday , streets mon intervention at the phase of health second reading of the bill to Bill C - 21 , I ai rose to them details substantiels Act Act seams of the bill to Bill No. 
the senator Murray , President of the committee of them finances nationales , has commitments share at the debate and we took release of them informations very pertinentes and détaillées . 
i devrais however add , mid - figue , mid - raisin , but with much of gratitude néanmoins , that I ai cru yesterday that what Bill of Bill Partnerships rallié the consensus of them senators , that these derniers estimaient the wheel suffisamment and very seriously examined and that he Partnerships therefore been examiné fell good and due form . 
by conséquent , fell ma quality of vice - patron of the committee , and the door - parole of the government streets unabated affair , I am intervenue yesterday and I ai asked Act leave of the Senate to avancer of a day Act date of health third reading of the bill to Bill No. 
honourable senators , the bill to Bill deserves the perhaps well examiné . 
i thank still series once the senator Lynch - Staunton , car he faisait his duty to Opposition of the Opposition and remplissait his role of series manner that we respectons all . 
fell outre , he remplissait his duty to Senator . 
what duty is particularly important car Act Constitution confère at the Senate a role constitutional at the hook of them bills of Bill of appropriation and the bill to Bill at the study door the power to dépenser a very fort amount of money . 
i thank the nouveau them honourable senators and I you souhaite at all a Joyeux Christmas . 
i am recognizing the Government fact that we serons all payés . 
( Act motion is adoptée and the bill to Bill , read series third once , is passed . ) 
bill to Bill of 1999 yeas Act implementation fell 9uvre of conventions fiscales 
third reading 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Hervieux - Payette , P , seconded by the Honourable Senator Gauthier , Refer at Act third reading of the bill to Bill S - 3 , Act mettant fell implementation a agreed , the foreign conventions and the foreign protocoles conclus between the Canada and the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , health Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzbékistan , health Jordanie , the Japan and the Luxembourg , fell standpoint of avoid them duplicates impositions and the prévenir the evasion fiscale fell matière of taxes Act the Income . 
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( cc of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , I thank the senator Cools of what consent royal , that I apprécie énormément . 
the senator Andreychuk has done yesterday a excellent exposé Act them composition auxquelles the bill to Bill S - 3 has rose instead . 
commentator ses observations acclaimed been well suffisantes , I me ferai very bref . 
bye the risk of repeat certaines of ses observations , I veux simply souligner what who has done the objet of the debate . 
honourable senators , he is very inhabituel that a bill to Bill Act series convention fiscale particulars activist of time . 
i believe that what is because that we awakened now trend at mood of the aspect financier of them treaties at gerrymandering of them rights of health human . 
what is series something Act laquelle til insistera , I the hope , with them years . 
the government not can remiss that wouldn - even yeas the interest particular that we awakened porté at what Bill of Bill , because that his cahier of breffage guardian exceptionnel . 
the cahier of breffage Convey Act the bill to Bill guardian the one of them meilleurs , sinon the meilleur , that I aie never vus . 
i query congratulate them authors of the cahier of wheel apporté series telle assistance at ceux who faces intéressaient at the bill to Bill No. 
honourable senators , we awakened rose to the incorrigible at retordre at the Leader Deputy of the government when we awakened insisté yeas that the bill to Bill authorized renvoyé at the committee of them Affairs Foreign Robbie that he insistait - at fair title at what moment - là - campus that he authorized renvoyé at the committee of them Banking , commentator what guardian Act coutume . 
the Leader Deputy has therefore fact Evidence of generosity fell permettant that the bill to Bill authorized renvoyé at them two committees . 
what guardian something little amusant and unsettling at what moment - là , but , rétrospectivement , I believe that ça has been a fiscal profitable . 
the committee of them Banking has examiné them conventions fiscales thin - mêmes , and the committee of them Affairs Foreign apply is intéressé more particularly at them country concernés - at a country fell particular - and at Act way whose the Canada , streets dapper policy étrangère , faisait entrer fell considération Act question of them rights of health human yeas determine ses relations with some countries . 
i estimated that these projects the bill devraient rather perhaps renvoyés at the committee of them Affairs Foreign because that , the most fell more , health discussion relative at them conventions fiscales portera Act them country eux - mêmes rather than Act Act nature of them conventions . 
these dernières are toutes enough similaires . 
thin are destinées at avoid Act double Imposition and the évitement fiscal . 
what is what that we ourselves efforçons of determine fell faisant a case particular the Government Ouzbékistan , a country whose the bilan rest enough mitigé . 
i cannot répéterai not what that I ai already said lors of the debate on second reading , but what not is not a country with lequel I query make the foreign Affairs or that I query visiter streets the état Present of them things . 
health response that we awakened obtenue not is not very satisfactorily , the Government less yeas moi . 
a result them witnesses entendus by the committee of them Affairs Foreign guardian Act directrice of them rights of health human , the foreign Affairs humanitaires and the Government equality of them women streets the world , at the Department of them Foreign Foreign and the Government Commerce international . 
dapper response has been Act suivante : 
the one standpoint of standpoint Heritage , the Canada not is not a partner suffisamment lourd yeas forcer at him odyssey a country at changer ses practices fell matière of Rights of health human fell him imposant of them sanctions unilatérales . 
even the foreign sanctions multilatérales well appliquées not are not always particularly efficaces . 
she has also déclaré that , until at now , the Canada not Partnerships imposed that foreign sanctions décidées by foreign Nations Nations . 
he rereads has much of réalisme streets unabated observation , but he rereads has also , I fell ai well afraid , a renoncement at them principles . 
that a country authorized petit and not ait that series influence marginale - what who never is not the case of the Canada - run he has certain principles , he not should not craindre of them allegiances of the prior and the foreign adhere . 
what is what that we essayons of obtaining the Government committee and the foreign officials of them Foreign Foreign . 
yesterday , the senator Taylor has asked if we devions mélanger rights of health human and Commerce . 
i cannot sharing not what standpoint of standpoint . 
certaines persons croient that the commitment is Act clé . 
i believe that the isolement and Oceans boycotts arresting wheel more of effect . 
yet là , what is series Position hautement notional yeas the moment . 
commentator the senator Andreychuk : has done yesterday , we voulons only well make ressortir that , when we concluons of reassess treaties , we cannot pouvons not we settle the no jeter that a regard distrait Act Act situation of them rights of health human streets the country fell cause . 
commentator the senator Grafstein : has underlined at the committee of them Affairs Foreign , each year , the Département of State validate prépare series analysis approfondie Act the bilan of almost all levels country of the world at the chapter of them rights of health human . 
unabated analysis is by Act subsequently soumise at the administration and at the Congress , who fell disposent Robbie at their guise . 
we cannot semblons not accorder autant of importance at what kind of work streets what country . 
he not apply notional not to reproduire what who faces fact elsewhere , but rather of utiliser them afford disponibles yeas make appliquer them principles that we awakened unsuccessfully of adopt fell what who has trait at them rights of health human . 
commentator some of our colleagues on savent , I avais the intent of propose the foreign amendments demandant Act radiation of the Ouzbékistan of the bill to Bill , but I believe that I ai been convaincu . 
after wheel heard the senator Andreychuk and Oceans other , I reconnais that he not serait not fair at what standpoint - ci of traiter a country of way différente and the Government pénaliser without wheel recueilli of thanking davantage of information . 
however , now that royal question has been soulevée , I hope that the foreign measures uncovered prises yeas that when viendra the time to allegiances at the standpoint of nouveaux treaties fiscaux , business responsables pousseront their analysis more loin that royal rédaction ordinaire of a treaty and that they tiendront account the Government bilan of what country fell matière of Rights of health human before the decide to our commitment . 
transport rights of health human not devraient not perhaps the odyssey topic of considération , but he is certain that they devraient make the objet of series considération more minitieuse that celle that til him accorde now . 
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein : 
the senator is - he loan at accept series brève question ? 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
well course . 
the senator Grafstein : 
i am the agreement fell principle Act everything what that the Honourable Senator has said at the topic of the fact that the government not circulation not intervene them rights of health human streets dapper policy and the Day possibility of associer intimement these two elements of way at exercer series pression morale Act a Crown fautif . 
the Honourable Senator has he songé , by example , at make adopt series resolution at Act House who circulation savoir at Act delegation canadienne auprès of the OSCE that the Senate to the Canada not is not satisfait of the bilan of them rights of health human streets a country rose , disons the Ouzbékistan , and who charge Act delegation of transmettre ses doléances at the OSCE yeas debate ? 
bye series échelle more modest , ses concerns , that I sharing , palatable perhaps soulevées at series gallery international where , with the Day persuasion morale , he serait possible for rallier of other States at these vues . 
the senator Lynch - Staunton : 
honourable senators , I thank the senator Grafstein of unabated excellente suggestion . 
she never me guardian not venue at the spirit , but I serai happy to there give subsequently . 
the Honourable Céline Payette - Payette : 
honourable senators , permettez - moi , at the phase of health third reading , a commentaire Act them propos of the Opposition of the Opposition analyzed that the ma colleague , the senator Andreychuk . 
we cannot awakened not to dissension Act Act question of the principle of them rights of health human ; what is rather understandings at them afford yeas make avancer them rights of health human that he rereads has series mésentente . 
streets mon speech at the phase of health third reading , I ai reminded them actions of the CIDA yeas facilitate the learning of the respect to them rights of health human , the application of health rule of right to even that the encouragement at progresser fell Ouzbékistan . 
streets these conditions , the bill to Bill S - 3 is streets the interest General of the Canada and the foreign populations who bénéficieront of them benefits of the trade . 
he améliorera Act condition of them citizens of these countries and fell same time , he facilitera the avancement of them rights of health human . 
when business rights fondamentaux and health survival of them individus are protected , he is more easy to ensure the respect to these rights . 
i move : Adopted of the bill to Bill S - 3 . 
( Act motion is adoptée and the bill to Bill is read series third once and passed . ) 
bill to Bill Act the Agreement définitif nisga' has 
second reading - Adjourned of the debate 
Étant the one of them senators who représentent unabated famous region of the Canada connue Subcommittee on behalf of British - British , I am very pleased and very proud of parrainer the bill to Bill C - 9 and the fell recommander the adoption . 
i the fais with the appui of them other honourable of health British - British of what side - ci of health House , business senators Perrault and Fitzpatrick , but I hope also , fell time opportun , the foreign senators ' health British - British of fell opposite . 
Évidemment , I sollicite the appui and the adhésion of them senators ' toutes them regions of the Canada . 
we croyons that the bill to Bill C - 9 offers the Government concret and that he avivera the desire to negotiate , what who is essentiel at Act stability social and at the progress economic that recherchent all levels Britannos - Colombiens . 
the bill to Bill whose we analyzed saisis marquera the history . 
he represents what that he rereads has the better at the Canada , what is - at - say Act volonté of them Canadians to écouter , the chercher the consensus , the accept Act diversity , the find the foreign solutions and the élaborer of them compromise . 
what Bill of Bill , who mettra fell vigueur the Agreement définitif nisga' has , Gallery a another jalon streets Act negotiating the treaties at the Canada at l' ère modern . 
with Act Convention on health Baie James and the Government North québécois at the milieu of them years 70 and , more recently , with Act Convention définitive of them Inuvialuit , the Agreement Act them claims territoriales of the Nunavut and the Entente - framework finale with them Indiens of the Yukon , the Senate has the privilege of And of them measures legislatures who unissent the Canada , who reconnaissent Act place to them Peoples aboriginal streets the tissu economic and Housing of the Canada , and who établissent of nouvelles relations positives between them governments and Oceans Peoples aboriginal . 
honourable senators , the Agreement définitif nisga' has and what Bill of Bill who the mettra fell vigueur arresting perhaps inclus streets the history of them treaties of l' ère modern . 
our role BNA at see if what Bill of Bill reflects correctement the agreement définitif , tel that négocié by foreign three parties , and apply he deserves the perhaps adopted fell activist that Bill No. 
i believe firmly that what Bill of Bill , and the agreement auquel he remembered rapporte , sert the interest of them Canadians , that he is conforme at Act Constitution and at the framework legal of the Canada , and that he should perhaps adopted . 
before the mood at them questions of fond , I voudrais say at them senators who are them Nisga' as , where they vivent and how the entente Act their claims territoriales and the bill to Bill him donnant effect are arrivés at the Senate yeas there perhaps discutés . 
transport Nisga' as vivent the term of health Newcastle Nass streets series region relatively éloignée of the north - west of health British - British , 100 kilometres at the north of Terrace and the Prince Rupert . 
outre them 2 500 Nisga' as vivant streets four villages the term of health Newcastle and the Hon. embouchure , only something 125 other residents permanents occupent the territory of 24 40,000 kilometres square of unabated Valley . 
transport seules communities organisées streets Act Valley Resource Management Nass are celles of them Nisga' as . 
transport Nisga' as vivant streets Act Valley Resource Management Nass forment the one of them nombreux groups Cultural of them Peoples aboriginal of health Coast North - western . 
they acclaimed series culture complex fondée Act them riches resources of health sea . 
historiquement , at the instar of them other peoples of health Coast North - western , business Nisga' as étaient of grands artists , bâtisseurs and artisans . 
their art rehausse always the apparence of nombreux immeubles of their villages , at the intérieur commentator at the outside . 
the salmon and Oceans other resources of health Nass their fournissaient nourriture and Contents brutes yeas their oeuvres payroll , artistiques and architecturales . 
here , based them rives of health Newcastle Outaouais , business oeuvres culturelles and artistiques of them Nisga' as arresting perhaps admirées streets Act Britain Galerie of the Museum Heritage of them civilisations and series exposition recently montée , " Le bowl commun nisga' has " . 
til fell trouve of other streets of nombreux musées streets the world . 
today today , based 5 500 Nisgas' as , 2 500 vivent répartis streets four villages : 
Kincolith , Greenville , Canyon City and York Aiyansh . 
health plupart of them other Nisga' as vivent at Terrace , Prince Rupert or Vancouver . 
they attachent much of importance at Act scolarisation and at the post post . 
transport Nisga' as acclaimed their own arrondissement scolaire , the arrondissement scolaire 92 . 
the post paving the Day tongue at Act twelfth and apply adresse at them Nisga' as and at them other résidents of health Valley Resource Management Nass . 
transport members of the council scolaire , whose a résident non Nisga' has , are élus . 
transport Nisga' as acclaimed also their own council of them services of health where them non - Nisga' as are also représentés . 
he acclaimed saisi toutes them occasions possibles of prendre the control of the education , the foreign care of health , the foreign services Cultural and the foreign services at them families analyzed that the other programs gouvernementaux , always fell quête of nouvelles opportunities for strengthen their families and health community . 
they acclaimed worked fell cooperation with their neighbours . 
they participent at the government régional Ils Cutbacks part of the government régional by the entremise of the former , Harry Nyce , who sits at the council . 
transport Nisga' as tentent since at the least 1887 of régler what that they appellent Act question of them Lands - since the moment where , commentator them honourable senators ' acclaimed already heard , business chefs nisga' Maclean acclaimed fact their Prime trip until at the Assembly legislative of health British - British yeas tenter of obtaining justice recognition of their title autochtone , a settlement by treaty and series certaine self self . 
their trip at Victoria has however been infructueux . 
fell 1890 , they acclaimed établi their Prime committee chargé of health issue of them Lands . 
fell 1913 , what committee has sent series petition at the Council private , fell England , yeas try to obtain a settlement of health issue of them Lands . 
always without success . 
the foreign years 20 until at them years 50 , business Nisga' as and the other First acclaimed seen their efforts yeas Act recognition of their rights and the their culture réprimés . 
health Donor of funds appeared serve Act cause of them claims territoriales or the other rights has been interdite . 
after the abrogation of health law fell cause fell 1955 , business Nisga' as acclaimed reconstitué their committee chargé of them claims territoriales . 
Subcommittee Act direction deM. Frank Calder , the council tribal has saisi them courts of health issue . 
unabated decision résolue shows Act determination of them Nisga' as at obtain Act recognition of their rights . 
much of other First First craignaient that foreign courts not rejettent their request , détruisant analyzed everything espoir that their rights soient reconnus streets the framework of a process policy . 
after the dismissal of health cause by foreign courts inférieurs , business Nisga' as acclaimed porté their affair until appeared Act Court Supreme of the Canada . 
fell 1973 , health Court Supreme has rendu dapper decision streets the affair Calder . 
well that partagée also Act Act question of savoir if them Nisga' as conservaient a title autochtone , she has admitted Act possibility that foreign rights and 209 aboriginal existent always at the Canada . 
unabated decision has much pesé Act Act decision to the government Trudeau of adopt series policy of negotiating the foreign claims territoriales là where thin not specialist not already been réglées . 
what is now at us , after series study attentive , the make our share yeas tribute unabated reconciliation possible . 
the Senate has also the opportunity here to appuyer solidement the principle voulant that the process of negotiating the foreign treaties fell British - British authorized valable and necessary . 
seuls Act negotiating , the compromise and health largeur of vues arresting tribute possible health conclusion of treaties which répondent at them interests of all . 
we cannot pouvons progresser that with the plein assentiment of toutes them parties intéressées . 
transport Nisga' as acclaimed been the one of them premiers groups at entreprendre of them negotiations at Act favour of what nouveau process . 
transport negotiations acclaimed débuté fell 1976 . 
however , without Act participation of health British - British , he guardian impossible to progresser Act Act question of them Lands . 
five years after Act Signing of the agreement framework Act them modalités of them negotiations , the government Chr , the government Harcourt and Oceans Nisga' as acclaimed signed a agreed to principle which fixait them summarizing elements of the agreement today today at the study . 
the agreement on principle has done the objet of debates considérables streets the opinion and at the assemblée legislative of health province . 
transport principles analyzed acceptés acclaimed déterminé the content and health structure of them negotiations Act the agreement définitif . 
two years and half later later , authorized fell August 1998 , the government Chr and the government ' Glen Clark acclaimed paraphé a agreed définitif . 
what guardian series grande réalisation and the aboutissement of more of a century of efforts persévérants of health share of them Nisga' as . 
acclaimed participated at what process non only four governments fédéraux - authorized levels governments Trudeau , Clark , Mulroney and Chr - but also three governments provinciaux successifs . 
fell outre , more of 500 consultations plubliques and legislatures of information acclaimed been tenues fell British - British . 
the treaty nisga' has Gallery series phase streets Act attest history of health conclusion of treaties with them First First at the Canada . 
what is the Prime treaty Heritage at prévoir the self self , series self who diminishes them rights of them Nisga' as streets the framework légal of the Canada and who has been négociée fell tenant account the foreign rights of all levels Canadians . 
streets what context , I tiens at citer here series statement that the minister of them Foreign Indian and the Government North Heritage , the Honourable Robert D . Nault , has introductory , the 26 October 1999 , at Act House of them Commons , at the surveillance of the debate on second reading . 
Seneca what that he has said : 
the government estimated that the self self is , at the instar of them other rights of them aboriginal , reconnue and confirmée by the article 35 of health Act BNA of 1982 . 
commentator them courts the acclaimed mentioned , he vaut better negotiate these rights that the laisser Act question perhaps scope fell justice , and what is richly what that we awakened fact . 
i veux now give a aperçu of health way whose fonctionnera the government nisga' has , car I believe that the agreement shows that til can negotiate the établissement of a government autochtone effective and responsible and prévoir of them provisions practices at bearer regard . 
health Act Act the Agreement définitif nisga' has and the Agreement définitif nisga' has visent notamment at modernize the government nisga' has and at create series structure self democratic , responsible and effective yeas them Nisga' as . 
the minister of them Foreign Indian and the Government North Heritage not fingertips more the last word streets them decisions at uniqueness régional . 
the foreign limits importantes at the self self - Provincial Nisga' as who are prescribed streets Act Act Act them Indiens not apply appliqueront more and Oceans Nisga' as uncovered fell measure of apply give a government which englobe their communities and all levels members of health Nation nisga' has . 
i know that our colleague the Day Saskatchewan , fell opposite , the senator Tkachuk , has approfondi , streets his bill to Bill S - 14 , the topic of the self self - Provincial aboriginal . 
he rereads constater with the other than number of them powers which are conférés at the government nisga' has are similaires at ceux who étaient énumérés at the Printed of the former Bill of Bill S - 14 . 
the government nisga' has arranged series government democratic at the intérieur of the model Heritage établi . 
the thanking , all levels men and Oceans women nisga' as rose atteint the age adulte pourront apply porter candidates at them election and voter yeas them representatives of their government . 
by example , he doit prévoir of them lines directives Act them conflits of interests and the foreign mechanisms visant at ensure Act responsibility financière , commentator what is the case yeas of other governments of the Canada . 
he doit assumer unabated responsibility loyalty ses propres citizens and loyalty them governments whose he tirera series part of ses fund . 
health Constitution nisga' has happened at the heart of the fiscal of a government nisga' has democratic . 
what government fonctionnera pursuant at them provisions of health Constitution of the Canada . 
the treaty énonce of them conditions précises of health Constitution nisga' has who repositories perhaps respectées . 
thin not arresting perhaps annulées by nil government nisga' has referred venir . 
the treaty derogation also the foreign provisions visant at protect them rights of them other aboriginal and ceux of them non - Nisga' as who habitent streets of them Lands nisga' as . 
health Constitution nisga' has doit ensure Act recognition and health protection of them rights and the foreign freedoms of them citizens nisga' as and offer Act possibility of contester Act validité of them laws nisga' as . 
she doit also renfermer of them elements clés , commentator of them mechanisms permettant of fell appeler of them decisions administratives and the wheel access at the information . 
the government nisga' has comprendra of them aspects uniques at Act culture and at the Heritage of them Nisga' as , but he arranged very reconnaissable commentator government similar at the other governments of the Canada . 
he rereads and arranged tenu politiquement and legally responsible for them decisions that he prendra . 
the government Lisims arranged also responsible at the Prime Opposition of them relations with the other paliers of government . 
transport four governments of them villages nisga' as composeront the second palier of the government nisga' has . 
the Traité nisga' has tient also account the foreign Nisga' as vivant at the outside of them Lands nisga' as . 
the treaty établit three premises urbains , authorized Terrace , Prince Rupert and Grand Vancouver . 
they not acclaimed not to powers législatifs but participeront at the government nisga' has fell élisant composite a member of the government Nisga' has Lisims . 
penchons - we now Act them powers législatifs of them Nisga' as . 
transport seuls powers législatifs that foreign Nisga' as auront are établis streets the treaty . 
i tiens at remind at them honourable senators that he not there has not to powers législatifs exclusifs at them Nisga' as . 
transport laws fédérales and Provincial apply appliqueront at them Lands nisga' as fell same time that foreign laws nisga' as . 
confirms ressemblera at what who faces fact Act them other territories to the Canada where them Canadians are assujettis at Act législation fédérale , provinciale , municipale or régionale . 
streets what type of model , the foreign rules of priority are nécessaires yeas établir what who paving apply mood fell case of conflict or the incohérence between two laws valides . 
the treaty nisga' has derogation certaines rules of priority streets each case where the government nisga' has fingertips of them powers législatifs . 
yeas that foreign laws nisga' as soient valides , thin repositories adhere these rules of priority . 
thin repositories apply plier at a certain number of other requirements . 
the thanking and before everything , thin repositories perhaps conformes at Act Constitution of the Canada , there including health Charter canadienne of them rights and freedoms . 
thin repositories perhaps also conformes at Act Constitution nisga' has . 
honourable senators , I veux specifying clearly that foreign powers that I viens of mention at the topic of health citizenship nisga' has not admits not the right to prendre of them laws regarding the Immigration , health citizenship canadienne , the inscription fell activist that Indien at them termes of health Act Act them Indiens or health possibility of impose at the Canada or at Act British - British the obligation to offer to them rights or the foreign benefits . 
til the précise very clearly streets the treaty nisga' has . 
finally , he is the foreign domaines where them interests of them other Canadians palatable perhaps considérablement and directly affectés by Act bill nisga' has , but where the interest public is respecté everything fell laissant at them authorities locales a certain power . 
streets unabated third category , business laws fédérales and Provincial priment Act Act bill nisga' has . 
transport laws fédérales and Provincial primeraient analyzed streets them domaines of health protection of the Environment , the Government Order public , the Day peace and the Day security , the foreign services of health , the foreign services Cultural , the foreign vessels and the foreign travaux publics , the Day circulation routière and the foreign transport , the Day célébration of them mariages , the Day sale of them products of health whaling and the Day fishing , and the Day regulatory of them substances intoxicantes . 
he not done nil doubt that the government nisga' has fonctionnera streets the framework legal and législatif Airports , and streets the respect to health Constitution canadienne and the Day Charter of them rights and freedoms . 
honourable senators , business Nisga' as vivaient streets Act Valley Resource Management Nass since the foreign centuries already before the arrival of them Europeans . 
we savons that their society guardian well organisée , prospère and Economy by the foreign rules of conduct social and the responsibilities loyalty Act community . 
the Main exploit the what treaty has been the integrate Act culture and the system of government propres at them Nisga' as at Act culture and at the system of health majority . 
commentator I the ai said everything at the hour , what is a arrangement practice . 
honourable senators , the one of them summarizing objectives of them negotiations on them treaties fell British - British is the create the foreign certitudes fell what who pertains them rights of them aboriginal by report at them rights of them governments federal and provinciaux , and the Day population canadienne . 
the Agreement définitif nisga' has satisfait bearer objective . 
he constitue series definition complète and définitive of them claims to them Nisga' as opposite at them rights and 209 aboriginal . 
thanks at bearer agreed , and commentator he is prévu streets the bill deloi C - 9 , these rights uncovered définitivement connus . 
bye the future , we serons fell measure of utiliser the agreement définitif yeas describe specifically them rights of them Nisga' as . 
composite of between us rereads utiliser the agreement définitif because that the treaty introduces that he can serve non only at the government and at them Nisga' as , but at everything the world . 
he is important yeas them groups of companies and Oceans groups ouvriers of health British - britannique that royal situation authorized claire . 
the foreign groups rose to them interests also various that the Quebecer National and the Congress of the work of the Canada acclaimed fact savoir at the committee Standing of health House that royal certainty guardian at Act basic of their appui at what treaty and at Act Signing of treaties fell General . 
the mayor of health city of Terrace , Jack Talstra , has said at the committee Standing : 
we adressons all our vows at our neighbours nisga' as . 
allons of the prior with what treaty . 
honourable senators , otherwise said , he tangibly garantir them rights of them aboriginal yeas ensure a future economic fort yeas Act British - British . 
bye the future , business Nisga' as uncovered fell measure of développer them Lands nisga' as . 
transport businesses which apply intéressent at them opportunities for development economic impact them Lands nisga' as sauront that foreign Nisga' as are owners of these Lands . 
what is what that signifie the text of the preamble of the agreement final who précise that the agreement doit procurer series certainty regarding health ownership and the utilisation of them Lands and the foreign resources . 
ceux who faces opposent at the Agreement final nisga' has risquent of us make losing confirms . 
i dis at condolences compatriotes of health British - British that confirms not is not acceptable . 
a report rendu public fell 1991 by Price Waterhouse arrivait at Act conclusion that foreign claims territoriales non résolues fell British - British specialist coûté at Act province 1 1.1 of $ fell investment and 1 500 jobs streets them seuls sectors of them Forestry and the foreign mines . 
the cost yeas them aboriginal is also very élevé fell reason for them contraintes who faces exercent Act their opportunities for development economic . 
fell contrepartie of a agreed définitif and intégral regarding toutes them claims nisga' as at the hook of them rights and 209 aboriginal , business Nisga' as recevront a settlement who comprend 196,1 million for $ versés Act series period of 15 years and a territory of approximately 2 40,000 kilometres square streets Act Valley Resource Management Nass , transfer which inclut them rights of surface and the exploitation of the subamendment - soil and also a right to cueillir series share of the stock of saumons of health Newcastle Nass and the foreign animals sauvages of health region of health Nass . 
however , not prêtons not faith at them propos tendancieux of some who prétendent that he rereads fingertips a transfer fell cash of more of 500 million for $ . 
what not is absolument not the case . 
who may calculer fully what that represents yeas them Nisga' as the fact of compter Act a bail foncier solide ? 
transport Nisga' as estiment that bearer agreed their gives Act possibility , thanks at them efforts that they consentiront and at their skills , the devenir autonomes Act the Mifflin economic . 
series tribu nisga' has prospère exercerait a enormous effect multiplicateur Act the whole of the economy of the north - west of health British - British commentator the knows the mayor of Terrace . 
the Government Notices of some Britanno - Colombiens , he vaudrait better laisser at them courts the soin of apply prononcer Act them claims aboriginal . 
what is series fausse croyance . 
he serait onéreux and vorace of time to recourir at them courts yeas examiner each revendication of a right or the one title autochtone yeas each place fell British - British . 
streets the affair Delgamuukw , health Court Supreme of the Canada has treaty of them disadvantages of the Points at them courts and soutenu that royal negotiating constituait Act meilleure way of résoudre these problems . 
some of between you apply rappelleront can - perhaps that the affair Delgamuukw is demeurée during ten years appeared them courts and that , fell bout of piste , health Court Supreme of the Canada has ordonné Act tenue of a nouveau procès . 
he remains yet to the uncertainty understandings at them rights aboriginal of them Gitskan and Wet' suwet' fell who étaient mêlés at unabated affair . 
health certainty who faces dégage of the treaty nisga' has shows clearly them benefits of health negotiating by report at the Points at the court . 
yeas achieve the objective consistant at arrêter series solution practice and applicable , the Agreement définitif nisga' has introduces of them arrangements établissant with certainty what that he fell is the Day ownership and the Government utilisation of them Lands and resource streets Act Valley Resource Management Nass . 
he is very important to souligner that the everything apply is déroulé streets the framework legal Heritage . 
transport negotiations on the Agreement définitif nisga' has not specialist not yeas objet of define them rights of them Nisga' as , but rather at allegiances end at the uncertainty fell explicitant , the Day way Act more claire and health later précise possible , all levels rights prévus at the article 35 that foreign Nisga' as pourront exercer series once that the Agreement définitif nisga' has fingertips been conclu . 
streets the past , the Canada has obtenu series form of certainty fell échangeant of them rights aboriginal non définis against the foreign rights définis issus of treaties by the Points at the foreign mots commentator " céder " or " abdicate " . 
transport objections of them First First at unabated technical of health cession constituaient the barrier Main at Act conclusion of treaties modernes . 
the Agreement définitif nisga' has adopte series approach axée Act Act " Modified of them rights " . 
according the approach dite of the right autochtone amended , business rights aboriginal of them Nisga' as , there including the subheading , subsistent , but modifiés , pursuant at them paramètres géographiques and other énoncés streets the Agreement définitif nisga' has . 
confirms has been rendu possible thanks at the agreement on them three parties and at the fiscal of them powers législatifs of them governments federal and provinciaux . 
analyzed therefore , all levels rights aboriginal that foreign Nisga' has possédaient Subcommittee on regime of common law uncovered modifiés and prendront Act form of them rights énoncés streets the Agreement définitif nisga' has . 
health technical visant at favoriser Act certainty proceeded therefore by the acceptation of them rights rather than their extinction . 
if , fell dépit of the Agreement définitif and the Day Act Act the Agreement définitif nisga' has , he is a right autochtone another that foreign rights of the article 35 of health Nation nisga' has énoncés streets the Agreement définitif nisga' has or whose business attributs are différents , what right arranged aboli at compter of health date of entrée fell vigueur of health law . 
fell vertu of health nouvelle approach at the hook of them rights aboriginal , business seuls rights that auraient them Nisga' as fell vertu of the article 35 petitioners ceux énoncés streets the Agreement définitif . 
honourable senators , I think that we pouvons see them compromise , business arrangements and health conciliation of them différents points of standpoint who permettent Act negotiating the approches modernes and réalisables at the hook of questions difficiles . 
the fact that foreign companies , business groups who acclaimed of them interests streets them resources , business governments premises and Oceans syndicats appuient the nouveau model of them rights shows that the snakes has tenu account the their interests at Act table of them negotiations . 
several detractors and adversaires of the Agreement définitif nisga' has seem not not perhaps intéressés by foreign facts . 
bye the instead of dictatorship , they déforment Act truth yeas make vibrer of them cordes sensibles fell standpoint of provoquer series reaction négative of health share of the public . 
transport senators are at the courant of what who faces is past streets the another place where the Opposition official , the Party Reform , has essayé of the make . 
honourable senators , a result them criticism virulents of what treaty is the Opposition of the Opposition official fell British - British , Rand Gordon Campbell . 
what last has admitted rejecting streets his memory at the committee Standing of the another place : 
transport people of British - British veulent of them treaties which concilient them rights of them Peoples aboriginal protected by Act Constitution with Act sovereignty of health crown . 
they veulent negotiate the foreign regulations because that confirms is préférable at the foreign regulations imposés by the foreign courts . 
honourable senators , what is exactly what that we awakened fact . 
Koppel . Campbell prétend that royal Act Act the Agreement définitif nisga' has crée a Insignia Order of government at the Canada and that , by conséquent , he represents series Modified at Act Constitution which doit perhaps soumise at Act population of health British - British by voie of referendum Subcommittee on regime of health law provinciale fell vigueur afin of obtaining the approval of health majority . 
he has intenté series Action yeas make intervene them courts and fell obtain series interpretation . 
transport parties at the agreement and Oceans constitutionnalistes who acclaimed témoigné lors of hearings antérieures estiment that the affirmation deM. Campbell not has nil touchstone constitutional . 
i voudrais citer of nouveau the minister of them Foreign Indian and the Government North Heritage who , fell apply adressant at the another place on 26 October last , has said : 
the Agreement nisga' has happened to series grande importance and he regardless of souligner that he has been conclu streets the framework constitutional Present of the Canada . 
the Agreement nisga' has happened a arrangement practice which définit them rights that royal Nation nisga' has exercera at them termes of the article 35 of health Act BNA of 1982 . 
these rights uncovered certes protected fell vertu del' section 35 , but confirms not signifie not that they uncovered absolus . 
transport courts acclaimed confirmed that these rights arresting perhaps enfreints if confirms apply justifie . 
honourable senators , the treaty nisga' has précise what who suit : 
the Agreement not modifie not Act Constitution of the Canada , notamment Act répartition of them powers between the Canada and health British - British . 
the 23 November , Robbie that the dean Peter Hogg and the professor Patrick Monahan , the Day Faculty of right Osgoode Hall , témoignaient appeared the committee Standing of the another place , the professor Monahan has said rejecting : 
therefore , fell gros , ma Position is that lesparagraphes 35 ( 1 ) and 35 ( 3 ) the Day Constitution envisagent specifically the process which is fell train of apply dérouler , at savoir that a agreed is conclu between a Inuvialuit autochtone , the government federal and / or series province . 
more loin , the professor Monahan ajoute : 
confirms not signifie not that foreign agreements fell se Cutbacks part of health Constitution of the Canada , but rather than them rights which fell découlent are protected and that blunt bill , fédérale or provinciale , who serait contrary at them rights issus of the treaty emigrate satisfaire at the criterion of justification fixé by foreign courts when a right protégé by the article 35 is violé , criterion who has been fixé streets the affair Sparrow . 
fell summary , honourable senators , nothing streets the bill deloi C - 9 not has Act moindre influence Act Act répartition of them powers accorded at the government federal and at them provinces by Act Constitution Heritage . 
their power législatif remains intact . 
he not done nil doubt that unabated question arranged factual a day by the foreign authorities more haut placées that celles that I viens of citer . 
til reproche also at the bill to Bill of Welfare fondé Act Act race . 
by example , the Dr. Keith Martin , MP Reform of Esquimalt - Juan of Fuca has written streets a section parule 24 November 1999 streets the quotidien The Ottawa Citizen : 
we créons a sentiment of animosité and the foreign divisions who rappellent the Africa of the South of the time to the apartheid . 
streets the same section , he déclare what who suit : 
he doit also there wheel series bill yeas all . 
however , at the surveillance of the audience that I ai boot everything at the hour , the professor Bradford Morse , the Day Faculty of right to the University of Ottawa , has said : 
health issue fondamentale who échappe at well - Provincial criticism , what is that foreign aboriginal not are not reconnus commentator a group distinct fell vertu of health race , but , commentator Act cour Supreme of them States - U.S. the has répété clearly at maintes occasions during at the least 170 years , some Peoples possèdent their propres territories since the foreign time immémoriaux , fell activist that First indépendantes rose their propres systems legal , culturel , religieux , linguistic and political ... what who reflects their difference commentator entities political , and non commentator groups raciaux . 
honourable senators , business rights accorded at them Nisga' as fell vertu of the article 35 of our Constitution are fondés Act their presence before the arrival of them Europeans streets Act Valley Resource Management Nass , and non Act to them reasons raciales , commentator some the acclaimed shirts hear . 
unabated self self guess the foreign rights fondés Act Act presence before the arrival of them Europeans and she is soigneusement conçue yeas that foreign rights and Oceans interests of them other Canadians , fell particular ceux who vivent streets Act region immediate , soient treaties correctement . 
all levels rights at Act ownership privacy are entièrement protected . 
all levels rights at Act ownership existants Act to them Lands nisga' as feront the objet of modalités équivalentes or améliorées . 
toutes them laws fédérales and Provincial apply appliqueront , there including individuals laws Provincial who never apply appliquent not streets them reserves Indian . 
otherwise said , he rereads fingertips more of protections yeas Act wife nisga' has , by example , who never apply appliquent not currently according Act Act Act them Indiens and the system of them reserves Indian . 
by conséquent , he rereads has strokes of amples opportunities for recueillir of them opinions Act toutes them questions substantielles . 
the elsewhere , what process of consultation apply is finalement révélé perhaps the most exhaustif and effective of blunt the history of them treaties at the Canada . 
streets his memory , Gordon Campbell has also fact allusion at certaines " concerns liées at the equality streets the treaty nisga' has " , laissant hear that royal rule of right not arranged not appliquée uniformément at all levels residents of health British - British and that ceux - ci not uncovered not treaties also at the intérieur of the Canada . 
the argument voulant that all levels residents of health British - British aient exactly them mêmes rights not correspond not at them provisions Constitutional who prévoient of them rights particuliers yeas some groups . 
what standpoint of standpoint nierait at them Nisga' as all levels rights issus of treaties and gives at hear also that he not should not there wheel of Rights aboriginal . 
fell outre , what standpoint of standpoint rejette all levels other rights particuliers protected by Act Constitution commentator them rights of them minorities , business rights at the education and Oceans rights linguistic . 
honourable senators , business Nisga' as no devraient not wheel at abdicate at their culture and at their language yeas vivre streets our magnificent country . 
he is possible , at the Canada , the perhaps at Act once autochtone and Heritage . 
the time nothing me allows not to aborder much of them questions soulevées by what treaty historic where the right at the self self - a Inuvialuit autochtone is , yeas Act first once , recognized by the Parliament fell vertu of the article 35 . 
the course of them manières , business rights of them non - Nisga' as vivant fell territory nisga' has are améliorés by the Elimination of them restrictions imposées by Act Act Act them Indiens . 
fell matière of Tolls , business Nisga' as acclaimed accepted , fell bref , that their Inuvialuit paie of them taxes commentator all levels other Canadians after series certaine period . 
parallèlement at their development economic , business Nisga' as assumeront series responsibility croissante of their own funding . 
they attendent with impatience of power apply libérer of health dépendance financière . 
honourable senators , I ai very hurry that we reprenions the debate Act the bill to Bill C - 9 . 
i believe that , when we the aurons examined at fond , we the appuierons with enthusiasm . 
i believe that Terry Glavin , a member of the Pacific Fisheries Resource Conservation Council , the Day British - British , has very well summary Act situation when he has commitments Act parolele 17 November last appeared ses fellow of health British - British and has said : 
i cannot doubt not that royal vast majority of them Britanno - Colombiens appuieront the objective of health conclusion , with them First First , the treaties which soient justes and raisonnables and who Cutbacks honour at Act crown . 
more loin , he has added : 
fell guise of épilogue , honourable senators , I tiens at souligner that few senators présents today today acclaimed played a role marquant at the Breast of the committee Joint of health House of them Commons and the Government Senate Act Act Constitution fell 1980 - 1981 , who has tenu of them hearings and discussed Act what that is devenue Act Act BNA of 1982 . 
what fut series period historic at the surveillance of laquelle Act Charter of them rights , the rapatriement of health Constitution and the nombreuses other matters importantes acclaimed , collectively , changed Act nature of the Canada , and fell good part yeas the better , at mon notice . 
the article 35 account Incidence them provisions importantes rose been adoptées at what moment - là . 
a certain number of senators and the Members acclaimed éprouvé series grande emotion when the minister of health Howe of the époque , Jean Chr , Subcommittee Act pression enormous of the committee Joint , has accepted , at the name of the government Trudeau , the add the article 35 at Act Constitution . 
the bill to Bill C - 9 represents the one of them summarizing results of our efforts of the époque . 
the committee Joint guardian coprésidé by gun the senator Harry Hays and by a fringant MP for the Quebec , became since the fringant Senator Joyal . 
i représentais Robbie the government at the Senate , tandis that the former senator Duff Roblin dirigeait the Opposition . 
the one of them members permanents of the another place whose the assiduité guardian copy guardian Eymard Corbin , today today Senator . 
that the snakes me pardonne if I ai oublié of mention who that what authorized at the Senate which has sat at what committee at title of member Standing . 
fell ending , I ferai observer that a Senate whose some of them members comptent more of 20 years of experience has certes series contribution useful at apporter fell matière of political self . 
the Honourable rald - A . 
honourable senators , bearer agreed ? car he remembered notional well - a agreed , and non - a treaty - is assujetti at Act Constitution , at Act Charter of them rights and at the Code criminal . 
confirms fact much . 
ma Gotcha préoccupation , and perhaps - perhaps could - til the examiner more fell depth fell committee , has trait at them skills concurrentes at the hook of health supremacy of them Nisga' as . 
confirms is without precedent , fell what sense that , streets the system federal Heritage , he rereads has sharing the foreign powers between the federal and Oceans provinces . 
analyzed , health supremacy is exercée tantôt by the Parliament of the Canada , tantôt by foreign legislatures legislatures Provincial . 
the system works very well . 
i ai heard say that ? and you me corrigerez if I me trompe - streets some cases , what who fact competition at Act supremacy not is the jurisdiction anguishes fédérale anguishes provinciale ; confirms wants can - perhaps say that he rereads has the Government flou something share streets the agreement . 
streets Act measure where the agreement not modifie not the sharing the foreign powers between Ottawa and Oceans provinces , I am satisfait . 
is - what the case ? 
the senator Austin : 
i veux thank the senator Beaudoin of dapper question . 
commentator I the ai said streets mon speech , he rereads has series provision particulière who précise that bearer agreed not touche fell nothing Act répartition of them powers between the Canada and health British - British . 
analyzed , he rereads has the article 35 protégeant them rights prévus streets bearer agreed . 
these rights reçoivent series protection BNA , but confirms not touche fell nothing Act répartition of them powers . 
health Constitution , issue of the agreement between the government federal and Oceans provinces , protège them rights of them aboriginal series once that the Parliament and health British - British acclaimed ratifié the agreement at the moyen of series bill . 
the senator Beaudoin : 
i cannot ai absolument nil problem with the article 35 , car he gives the foreign rights collectifs at them aboriginal streets Act Constitution of the Canada . 
i am everything at fact fell favour of these rights , car them aboriginal étaient here them premiers . 
ma question door simply Act Act Domination of a power by report at a another when the foreign powers are exercés concurremment . 
when what Bill of Bill arranged examined by a committee , I hope that til examinera unabated question more fell depth . 
the rest of the agreement not me pose nil problem . 
the senator Austin : 
i attends with impatience unabated study . 
the senator raises a standpoint essentiel . 
i guess that streets some cases , business powers of the Council tribal nisga' has auront Domination , mostly fell what who pertains them rights linguistic and Cultural . 
however , they are always subjects at the criterion of the character reasonable énoncé streets the v. Sparrow , car unabated cause fact part of our right constitutional . 
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau : 
honourable senators , I ai listened carefully the speech of the senator and series of condolences questions door Act them quotas of salmon alloués streets Act Newcastle Nass . 
however , he rereads has a moyen by lequel the minister and health crown arresting accorder of them quotas of fishery , authorized the article 7 to health Act Act them fisheries . 
the government can even create the foreign reserves exclusives of fishery , what who is envisagé streets the treaty nisga' has . 
commentator til the précise streets the article 7 , confirms doit apply make by the adoption of series measure legislative pertinente . 
the treaty introduces series Zone of fishery exclusive who arranged ensuite protégée fell vertu of the article 35 of health Constitution . 
by conséquent , business parliamentarians céderont their power législatif touchant Act répartition of unabated ressource commune . 
yeas series of them premières once the Government history , the foreign parliamentarians renonceront at a duty , prévu streets Act Constitution , the protect series ressource Public . 
transport négociateurs acclaimed - they tenu account the bearer aspect or prostituted - you strokes right at series postponement of information at what topic ? 
the senator Austin : 
honourable senators , I cannot am without doubt not also well préparé that the senator Comeau at examiner at what stadium - ci them consequences exactes of the attribution of health Zone of fishery . 
i know that royal Act Act them fisheries and Oceans regulations afférents apply appliquent at them récoltes fell vertu of the Agreement nisga' has . 
a plan to fishing annual doit perhaps presented and , commentator the has said : hon. Senator Comeau , business Nisga' as acclaimed a agreed prévoyant a right at series share précise of health harvest of fish . 
bye mon notice , you obtiendrez series meilleure response at vos questions during Senators discussions fell committee . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
ma question apply adresse at the senator Austin . 
the article 35 of health Act BNA of 1982 complements everything fair after them sections 1 at 34 who constitute Act Charter of them rights and freedoms . 
is - he correct the say that royal Charter of them rights and freedoms not apply applies not at the article 35 , but that fell vertu of what treaty , health Charter of them rights and freedoms apply appliquera ? 
the fact , I estimated that royal Charter apply applies fell vertu of bearer agreed , what who confère series more grande protection streets series perspective of Rights of health human that series measure who never relève that the Government section 35 ? 
the senator Austin : 
the senator Kinsella : 
honourable senators , at the moment of amorcer the debate Act the principle of the bill to Bill , I veux éclaircir them rights that possèdent them Indiennes fell vertu of the bill to Bill C - 31 , the amendment at Act Act Act them Indiens who has abrogé the alinéa 12 ( 1 ) b ) the Government ancienne Act Act them Indiens . 
some appellent confirms the " right to réversion . " 
what right is - he maintenu fell vertu of the Agreement nisga' has , or apply notional - he ' series more grande or the genus less grande protection yeas them women who voudraient réintégrer Act community nisga' has ? 
the senator Austin : 
honourable senators , I cannot puis respond at unabated question that fell termes généraux , fell disant that étant rose that royal Charter apply applies and that royal Charter interdit Act discrimination , I believe that foreign rights of them women nisga' as are désormais égaux at ceux of toutes them other women Forces . 
health Sanction Royal 
notice 
his Honour the Speaker informe the Senate that he has received Act communication suivante : 
the 16 December 1999 
dear the Speaker , 
i ai the honour to you aviser that the very hon. Antonio Lamer , Judge fell Opposition of health Court Supreme of the Canada , fell dapper quality of Governor General Acting , run rendra at Act House of the Senate today today , the 16 December 1999 , at 5:30 hours , afin of give Act Assent Royal at some bills of Bill No. 
the Honourable Le Speaker of the Senate Ottawa 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , commentator you you prostituted avoided you fell tribute account when I ai fact Reading , what is the judge fell Opposition sortant who viendra here what night . 
what arranged dapper dernière Assent Royal before the prendre dapper retirement and , without doubt , health dernière Assent Royal Canadian what millennium . 
i hope that all levels honourable senators pourront assister at Act réception who arranged donnée fell the honour to the judge fell Opposition referred the issue of health Assent Royal . 
health Act Act the Parliament of the Canada 
bill to Bill Amend - Second Reading - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Grafstein , seconded by the Honourable Senator Callbeck , Refer at Act second reading of the bill to Bill S - 5 , Act amend Act Act Act the Parliament of the Canada ) poète cc of the Parliament ) . - ( 
the Honourable Senator Hays ) . 
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin : 
honourable senators , the senator Grafstein knows that I cannot ai not much of enthusiasm yeas his bill to Bill No. 
néanmoins , I him am recognizing the wheel saisi the Senate to unabated proposal . 
if I ai well including , the bill to Bill S - 5 VI at institutionnaliser Act poetry fell proposant a poète cc of the Parliament . 
however , puisqueMon horaire not me has not licences of me prepare commentator I the aurais désiré yeas express condolences réticences . 
the senator Grafstein me press since 48 hours of prendre Act parole before the adjournment of them Fêtes afin that what Bill of Bill puisse perhaps renvoyé at a committee yeas study and audition of witnesses from his cru , I me efforce today today to the satisfaire , but what not arranged not necessarily mon last word . 
he has strokes the time to rédiger his discour , the cheering penser , the prendre of them notice and the recevoir council . 
he has strokes of them months yeas what make . 
he voudrait now that foreign rare persons at the Parliament who vivent and mangent littérature apply précipitent abracadabrant streets the engrenage of his enthusiasm . 
he doit savoir pourtant that the process of health production intellectuelle , whose he wouldn arrive sometimes the activist déplorer Act quantité , demand for the time yeas Act research , health reflection and health rédaction . 
finally , I accommoderai the Honourable Senator puisque the choc of them ideas not is never fell se a fiscal futile . 
confirms said , I apprends now that the debate arranged adjourned after condolences remarques . 
commentator by hasard , but damned heureuse coïncidence , I relisais fell end of week Edgar Allan Poe , dapper life and ses ouvrages , a written to Charles Baudelaire daté of 1852 . 
i ai yeas these two monuments littéraires that are these two grands poètes , that I cannot ai never ceased of fréquenter at the surveillance of them years , series admiration illimitée . 
i am therefore biaisé , sachez - Government . 
gold , I retrouvais unabated phrase of health main of Baudelaire , and I quote : 
Alfred of Vigny has written a book , ( Stello , 1832 ) yeas démontrer that royal place to health poetry not is anguishes streets series république , anguishes streets series monarchie absolue , anguishes streets series monarchie BNA [ ... ] 
and Baudelaire ajoute : 
[ ... ] and human not him has answered . 
Stello défend a standpoint of standpoint well particular , that I sharing almost entièrement . 
i cannot ai not the time , yeas Act reason invoquée at the beginning of mon propos , the entrer streets the detail . 
yeas perhaps honnête , and without prétendre that Stello can perhaps transposé mutatis mutandis of health situation of health poetry of 1830 at celle who prévaut at our époque , he rereads has series considération fondamentale at retenir , the Government less I the think . 
he said : 
séparer Act life poétique of health life policy . 
and yeas there parvenir : 
laisser at César what who appartient at César , what is - at - say the right to perhaps at each hour of each day honni streets Act street , trompé streets the palais , combattu sourdement , miné longuement , battu promptement and snakes violemment . 
second prescription of the Docteur Noir at the poète : 
odyssey and free , accomplir dapper mission . 
suivre them conditions of his perhaps , dégagé of the influence of them Associations , even them more belles . 
because that royal Solitude Gotcha is Act source of them inspirations . 
and I fell proceeded much , the essentiel étant énoncé . 
the essentiel , what is Act nature same of the work of creation poétique that til not saurait embrigader . 
a versificateur , a rimeur rémunéré at the verset , yes , perhaps - perhaps , but not a authentique poète - confirms never ! 
i cannot puis me conceive that a poète streets the soul voudrait apply emprisonner streets the carcan that comporte the word cc . 
fell fact , he tangibly poser Act question of series another way , he me seems . 
damned is Act border between the langage and the power ? 
i you réponds that she is the Day minceur of the tranchant of health guillotine who décolleta Andr Chénier , poète . 
i you screwed also that unabated border apply présentait jadis Subcommittee Act form of the Index romain or the Government court who condamna them poèmes of Baudelaire , who fell thief activist of other . 
confirms you gives only series very petite idea , yeas souligner that royal poetry not doit nothing to the everything at them Césars , at them papes , at them empereurs , at them despotes of everyone acabit . 
and what is at the honour to the poète . 
today today , health border between the langage and health policy is also distante that the space who sépare of dapper earth natale the poète exilé and persécuté . 
i cannot ai unfortunately not strokes the time to lire them propos of mon hon. ami , the senator Kinsella . 
i the ferai during the adjournment , after them Fêtes . 
i believe however , yeas wheel heard Act blunt end of his speech of the another day , that he baigne streets series nostalgia surannée . 
i me fell ferai series meilleure idea Subcommittee little , and if I ai evil interprété his propos , I saurai me fell excuser . 
i considère that royal proposal of the senator Grafstein has series odeur of moisi victorien , and I me excuse of the say fell presence of the joli buste who orne the appeared of unabated Room of assemblée , fair au - dessus of your tête , Your Honour . 
that is - he arrivé of our ability to rêve , the our talents of explorateurs ? 
what is commentator if we , Canadians , étions still écartelés au - dessus of a abîme without fond and also vast that the océan who we sépare of our mothers patries ; écartelés between our past and our challenges . 
apply accrocher at series practice or at series symbolique vacuum of meaning serait - he series another manifestation of our insécurité national ? 
what is commentator if we manquions of maturité yeas innover . 
impotent - we at what standpoint déficients ? 
i pensais , but am - I illusionné , that our tradition democratic suffisait yeas we libérer of them carcans and the foreign façons of Welfare at the world désuètes . 
i cannot parle not yeas the poète , I exprime series conviction profonde . 
( Act Act motion of the senator Kinsella , at the name of the senator Lynch - Staunton , the debate is adjourned . ) 
health Act Act the Immigration 
bill to Bill Amend - Second Reading - Stands of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I voudrais obtain Act leave yeas that bearer section rest sciences at the name of the Honourable Senator Grafstein , who has the intent of fell parler . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
plaît - he at them honourable senators that bearer section rest sciences at the name of the Honourable Senator Grafstein ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( the debate is reporté . ) 
languages Languages 
passage of the second report of the committee Joint Standing 
the Senate proceeded at the study of the second report of the committee Joint Standing of them languages Languages ( the character bilingue of health Capital of the Canada ) , presented at the Senate Committee 14 December 1999 . - ( Le hon. Senator Losier - Cool ) . 
the Honourable Rose - Marie Losier - Cool : 
honourable senators , I move : Adopted of what report . 
fell proposant the adoption of what report , I query citer the very hon. Pierre Elliott Trudeau lors of health ceremony of health proclamation of health Constitution , the 17 April 1982 : 
i parle of a Canada where them men and Oceans women of ascendance autochtone , Speaking or britannique , or originaires of other crops fassent Evidence of health volonté of vivre together streets what country streets Act peace , health justice and the respect mutuel . 
i parle of a Canada proud and strengthened the Government fact of dapper nature bilingue , the one Canada where them people croient streets the sharing and the entraide , non not streets the édification of barrières régionales . 
what is streets the spirit of unabated vision that the committee Joint Standing of them languages Languages believes and lobbyist at Act defence of health promotion of them rights linguistic of them communaut anglophone and francophone of the Canada , and what is also streets the spirit of unabated vision that foreign members of the committee proposent the adoption of what second report presented the 14 December . 
the Honourable MabelM. DeWare : 
honourable senators , we analyzed of agreement with them recommendations figurant streets the report presented by the senator Losier - Cools and we analyzed loans at appuyer Act motion of Adopted . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
( Act motion is adoptée , and the report is passed . ) 
review of health regulators 
passage of the Prime report of the committee Joint Standing 
the Honourable Céline Payette - Payette : 
honourable senators , I move : Adopted of what report . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , you plaît - he ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée , and the report is passed . ) 
the Union Monetary European 
the report of the committee of them Affairs Foreign - Stands of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
the Honourable Peter A . Stollery : 
honourable senators , I query that the article No. 4 remains sciences at mon name . 
i think that I dois a word of explanation at them honourable senators étant rose that confirms fact 12 days that bearer section consigned at the Paper . 
i ai commitments Act responsibility to unabated question after the departure of the senator Stewart who has commitments dapper retirement recently . 
the committee of them Affairs Foreign has been very occupé these derniers time . 
i me occuperai of unabated question , but not fell ai not strokes the time until here . 
( the debate is reporté . ) 
the décret tabled pursuant at Act Act Act them transport at the Canada autorisant some carriers aériens majeurs at negotiate and at conclude blunt entente conditionnelle - Adoption of the third report of the committee of them transport and the foreign Communications 
the Senate proceeded at the study of the third report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them transport and the foreign Communications ( embauche of the staff ) , presented at the Senate Committee 15 December 1999 . - ( Le hon. Senator Bacon ) . 
the Honourable Lise Bacon : 
honourable senators , I move : Adopted of what report . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , you plaît - he ' adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée and the report is passed . ) 
the Ontario 
the bill to Bill Act Act restructuring régionale - Ex refusal of déclarer Ottawa officially bilingue - Interpellation - Suspended of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act the inquiry of the Honourable Senator Poulin , calling the attention of the Senate Act Act decision to the government ' s Ontario ' not not adopt series recommendation visant at make the Ottawa series city bilingue after dapper restructuring Proposed . - ( 
the Honourable Senator Fraser ) . 
the Honourable Joan Fraser : 
honourable senators , when I prends Act parole here at Act House , I essaie fell General of utiliser them two languages Languages . 
today today however , I me exprimerai fell English only yeas unir ma Senators at celle of all ceux who exhortent the government ' s Ontario at adopt series bill précisant that royal nouvelle grande city of Ottawa arranged officially bilingue . 
i me adresserai at you fell English only because that I believe that he is important to reconnaître that what is series question who pertains all levels Canadians , business anglophones , business francophones , ceux that we appelons at the Quebec them allophones and Oceans aboriginal , that they parlent them two languages Languages or only series or even aucune of them two . 
he rereads has bon number of reasons yeas lesquelles Act city of Ottawa , and not only Act region of health Capital national who appartient at the government federal , should perhaps officially bilingue . 
health first , who faces situe at the Mifflin timeless , what is that a grandfather number of francophones there vivent , 125 40,000 I believe . 
i know what that confirms signifie of see her own government hesitate at reconnaître Act legitimacy of dapper community linguistic , his right at perhaps reconnue at share entière yeas what that she is , what is - at - say a attribut of a result them Peoples fondateurs of what country . 
i know what that confirms signifie of hear his government dd say something something of the kind " Regardez commentator we you traitons well . 
you devriez perhaps reconnaissants yeas toutes these bonnes things that we cynicism yeas you . 
no demandez mostly not at perhaps reconnus yeas what that you êtes . 
no you attendez not at what that til you accorde of them rights . 
damned impression fell ressent - til ? 
confirms fact evil , honourable senators . 
confirms you gives the impression that chez you , streets your own province , not êtes not considéré commentator a citizen at share entière same if vos ancêtres acclaimed contributed at bâtir what country and that royal Constitution reconnaisse your language commentator the genus of them two languages Languages of the country . 
honourable senators , we savons all that , since series generation , business governments ontariens successifs , there including the government Present , laughed déployé of them efforts impressionnants yeas allegiances Act foot and offer a vast éventail of services of language Speaking and yeas help them francophones at bâtir and at contrôler their institutions communautaires essentielles . 
well that we regrettions can - perhaps all profondément Act situation at the Hôpital Montfort and that we espérions can - perhaps , commentator I the fais , that she arranged réglée of way satisfactorily , he is also important to reconnaître that the government ontarien Present has commitments the initiative of confier at them francophones the control of them schools françaises . 
what not is not nothing . 
i fell rends tribute at the government ' s Ontario . 
we comprenons all that we siégeons here , at the Parliament federal and that , at the Canada , business municipalities relèvent of health jurisdiction of them provinces . 
we savons that royal creation of health mégaville is series affair of jurisdiction provinciale . 
he not there has surely nil of between us who the conteste . 
what is also incontestable that Ottawa is a case Special . 
what is series municipally ontarienne , certes , but what not is not series municipally commentator them other , car Ottawa and Ottawa Gotcha is Act Capital national . 
health region of health Capital national not is not Act Capital . 
what is series region , series belle region , créée and administrée commentator he tangibly , series merveilleuse recognition géographique of the importance of health Capital yeas all levels Canadians ; but Ottawa , health city of Ottawa , is Act Capital . 
bye the Canada , we awakened two languages Languages . 
what is a aspect fondamental of our history , the our existence commentator country . 
what is a result them pillars of our identity and the our political nationales . 
how apply can - he that royal Capital of the country not should not refléter what fact wonderful ? 
breaching message confirms envoie he at them Canadians , not only at them francophones but at all levels Canadians , when we disons that , even if we awakened two languages Languages , Gotcha the genus of thin is really official here , streets Act Capital she - even ? 
honourable senators , the spring last , he me has been rose to visiter Bruxelles , health Capital of a country at them prises with the foreign problems linguistic who relèguent them guardian at the foreign caprices of children . 
i am persuadée that you savez that royal Belgique is divisée fell cantons French and flamands , but , officially , fell practice and the example ses laws , Bruxelles is series city bilingue . 
he should fell perhaps analyzed and we devrions we fell inspirer . 
the aucuns soutiennent that , if we insistons yeas that royal city of Ottawa authorized bilingue , we devons also insister yeas that celle of Hull the authorized also . 
confirms raises a problem of ressort dd . 
fell activist that Québécoise of language anglaise , I puis souhaiter ardemment that the government ' s Quebec accorde at Hull the status cc of city bilingue , commentator he the has done yeas of other municipalities , there including celle where I réside . 
but confirms not pertains fell nothing Act city of Ottawa . 
i am persuadée , honourable senators , that we awakened all been ravis of learn that royal municipally of Ottawa has asked at the government ' s Ontario ' reconnaître at unabated méga - city the status of city bilingue . 
i believe savoir that odyssey the government dd can reconnaître what status at series municipally ontarienne . 
he rereads has strokes of them precedents appeared them courts at bearer effect . 
we savons that some circles opposent series résistance at unabated measure . 
blunt Act résistance active whose I am at the courant complements of anglophones , and series grande part of unabated résistance seems apply express by Act crainte , series crainte of them consequences that the status bilingue of health Capital national could wheel yeas them anglophones who habitent at Ottawa . 
well course , much of people craignent the change and sometimes , unabated crainte is justifiée ; however , a little of change is positif . 
a little of change allows the bâtir a future meilleur yeas our country and yeas we all , who impotent tellement privilégiés of fell perhaps them citizens . 
we pouvons arriver at embrasser what change . 
i songe at condolences parents , the foreign anglophones of health Nova Scotia Nova , fiers of their racines , who remontaient at 200 years streets our country . 
they not acclaimed never spoke French . 
autant that I sache , nil of their ancêtres not parlait French , the gaélique , yes , but not the French . 
when condolences parents étaient young , health issue of the bilingualism and the Government biculturalisme not pointait same not at the horizon . 
streets them years 60 , when the Canada English has finally including bearer élément of the history , the Government identity and the Government future of our country , condolences parents acclaimed been Incidence them million for Canadians English at the understanding eux also and at apply réjouir of the identity bilingue and biculturelle of our country . 
they not acclaimed not learned the French , but they acclaimed fact fell sorte that I the apprenne , car they estimaient that all levels Canadians who fell specialist Act possibility devraient parler them two languages of the Canada . 
they étaient fiers that I aie learned the French . 
i their am éternellement reconnaissante of me fell wheel offert Act possibility . 
why awakened of them flags , by example , if the symbolisme not is not important ? 
the symbolisme is series something extremely importante yeas we all . 
and where is - what more important that streets Act Capital of the country ? 
finally , I suggère that if Ottawa not is not series city commentator them other , the Ontario is series province not commentator them other . 
she has always contributed at several of them elements of our identity whose we analyzed if fiers - Status tolerance , the opening of mind , the balance whose we ourselves targuons . 
i urge therefore the government ' s Ontario , series once again , the assumer his role historic of Chief of file . 
commentator we the awakened heard fell unabated enceinte today today and Oceans days precedents , til is fell train of And very seriously of other voies yeas that Ottawa ait the status of city bilingue that she deserves , at mon notice . 
series Action fell justice is prévue by our colleague , the Honourable Senator Joyal , without doubt the most infatigable défenseur of them rights of them minorities that we connaissions . 
he is question that the government federal intervienne . 
apply he tangibly fell arriver là , that he fell authorized analyzed , but he serait tellement more préférable that the government ' s Ontario circulation what that acclaimed fact activist of ses prédécesseurs before him , that he affirme his leadership and assume his role historic who is the run montrer the proud protecteur of what that he rereads has the better at the Canada . 
i urge the everything mon heart the government ' s Ontario at heed account the foreign supplications of unabated House and the activist of Canadians . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
his Honour the Speaker : 
hon. Senator Beaudoin , I dois unfortunately you inform that he not rest that series minute before that I quitte the fauteuil afin that we procédions at Act Assent Royal . 
aussitôt that she arranged terminée , we reprendrons the debate . 
honourable senators , the Senate apply ajourne now at loisir fell attendant the arrival of the very hon. Acting of His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale . 
[ French ] 
i ai the honour to you make savoir that he has plu at His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale of ordonner the émission of letters patentes Subcommittee ses seing and sceau constituant the Honourable Antonio Lamer , Judge fell Opposition of health Court Supreme of the Canada , his Acting , and the chargeant of exécuter at the name of His Excellency , all levels mood nécessaires , at the gré of His Excellency . 
the Clerk of the Senate gives Reading - Status commission . 
he plaît at the Honourable Acting of His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale of give Act Assent Royal at the bill to Bill suivant : 
bill Convey implementation fell implementation of the Agreement conclu between the government ' s Canada , business governments of States members of the Agency spatiale European , the government ' s Japan , the government ' health Federation of Russia and the government ' Affairs States - U.S. of America Act Act cooperation relative at Act Station spatiale international civile and apportant of them changes connexes at the other Acts , ( Chapter of Bill C - 4 , Chapter 35 , 1999 ) 
the Honourable Gilbert Parent , Speaker of health House of them Commons , run adresse ensuite at the Honourable Acting of health Gouverneure générale fell these termes : 
that he plaise at Your Honour . 
health House of them Commons to the Canada has voted certain appropriation requis yeas permettre at the government ' pourvoir at them Estimates for the service public . 
bye the name of health House of them Commons , I présente at Your Honour the bill to Bill suivant : 
bill Convey octroi at Majesty Majesty of appropriation yeas the administration Public fédérale during the fiscal apply ending the 31 March 2000 , ( Chapter of Bill C - 21 , Chapter 36,949 , 1999 ) 
bye what Bill of Bill , I prie humblement Your Honour the give Act Assent Royal . 
he plaît at the Honourable Acting of health Gouverneure générale of give Act Assent Royal at the bill to Bill No. 
health House of them Commons withdrew withdrew . 
he plaît at the Honourable Acting of His Excellency Act Gouverneure générale of apply withdraw . 
the Ontario 
health law Act Act restructuring régionale - Ex refusal of the government ontarien of adopt Act recommendation visant at make the Ottawa series city bilingue - Interpellation - Continued of the debate 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act the inquiry of the Honourable Senator Poulin , calling the attention of the Senate Act Act decision to the government ' s Ontario ' not not adopt series recommendation visant at make the Ottawa series city bilingue after dapper restructuring Proposed . - ( 
the Honourable Senator Fraser ) . 
the Honourable rald - A . 
honourable senators , the Canada is series federation bilingue and originators , analyzed that the reconnaissent our various laws Constitutional of 1867 at our days . 
he is streets the Order of them things that royal Capital of what country authorized also bilingue . 
several States fédéraux acclaimed series Capital bilingue , voire same multilingue . 
he is exact that at them termes of health Constitution canadienne , business municipalities relèvent of health jurisdiction provinciale , according the paragraph 92 ( 8 ) the Day Act BNA of 1867 . 
what is say that foreign structures and Oceans powers of a council municipal are the attribut of them provinces . 
til doit adhere the sharing the foreign powers . 
however , Ottawa not is not series city commentator them other , what is Act Capital of the Canada . 
and at the c9ur of what country , business grandes institutions fédérales are bilingues : the Parliament federal , health Court Supreme of the Canada , Rideau Hall and Oceans departments . 
a section of health Constitution of the Canada , the article 16 , traite of health Capital of the Canada and déclare that the seat of the government federal is at Ottawa . 
streets the v. Munro of 1966 , health Court Supreme of the Canada has recognized that the Parliament federal can abdicate Act Act Capital national fell vertu of dapper jurisdiction résiduelle fell vertu of health clause : peace , Order and bon government . 
streets unabated affair , health Court Supreme has recognized that the Parliament federal can create series region of health Capital national , instituer series Commission of health Capital national and habiliter unabated commission at exproprier of them terrains yeas the embellissement of health Capital national . 
unabated Commission of health Capital national is soumise at Act Act Act them languages Languages puisque she is a body created by series bill fédérale . 
health law fédérale Act them languages Languages , who met Act a foot of equality the usage of health language anglaise and the Day language Speaking streets them institutions fédérales , richly Act Act jurisdiction résiduelle of the Parliament Heritage , commentator the has établit the v. Jones of 1975 , a judgment unanimous of our most haut court . 
health part VII of health Act Act them languages Languages allows series certaine extension of the bilingualism and has more than series value déclaratoire fell right , she has series value obligatoire . 
he rereads has therefore , according Act Constitution , a certain sharing the foreign powers streets the field who we preoccupation . 
the article 16 of health Act BNA of 1867 has been interprété libéralement and , at mon notice , til doit continue at the make . 
some jurists acclaimed already examined Act question of a exodus District federal , commentator at Washington and several other capitales fédérales . 
they acclaimed examined Act question of series Capital Act them two rives of the Outaouais , and also Act question of a District federal Act them two rives . 
i cannot veux not ouvrir what debate today today , car he not is not currently appeared we . 
what who is appeared we , however , what is Act question of series Capital bilingue , anguishes more anguishes less . 
what is already much . 
mon colleague , the senator Serge Joyal , has invoqué , at the appui of his plaidoyer fell favour of series Capital bilingue , business principles identifiés by Act Court Supreme streets the referred Act Act sécession of the Quebec , yeas encadrer them negotiations between the Quebec and the Canada or between series province and the Canada , what is - at - say the constitutionnalisme , health democracy , health rule of right , the respect to them rights of them minorities and the Evolution . 
if til can invoquer these principle at the opportunity to series sécession , they arresting certes perhaps invoqués yeas the renewal of the Evolution . 
i termine mon exposé legal Act them remarques of the judge Cartwright , streets the v. Munro , streets lequel what jurist invoquait Act theory of the interest attain : 
i dispel difficilement conceive the objet of series measure legislative who dépasse more clearly them interests premises or provinciaux and who intéresse davantage the Canada streets his together that gerrymandering of the development , the Day préservation and the Government improvement of health region of health Capital national . 
the judge Jean Beetz , streets the referred Act Act Act anti - inflation of 1976 , wrote that : 
til dira without doubt that he rereads has series difference between Act Capital and health region of health Capital . 
i conclus that royal Capital of our country apply doit of Welfare bilingue . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the Honourable Serge Joyal : 
honourable senators , I ai listened with much of interest the exposé of the senator Beaudoin . 
i voudrais porter at his attention series nuance Act the affirmation regarding health part VII of health Act Act them languages Languages that the committee Act them languages Languages has strokes the opportunity to And . 
the senator Gauthier , unabated week , me transmettait series information sur la nature précise of health partieVII. 
you prostituted soutenu that royal part VII Partnerships a uniqueness exécutoire , and not sideshow déclaratoire . 
currently , series cause fell Court fédérale conteste specifically Act nature of the character déclaratoire of health part VII of health Act Act them languages Languages . 
commentator she never is not couverte by foreign sections of health law which traitent of them Points judiciaires possibles , unabated part of health law échappe at Act révision and at the ordonnance of them courts Airports . 
i cannot am not to bearer notice streets the context of référence of health Court Supreme Act Act sécession of the Quebec . 
unabated question has been soulevée by the senator Gauthier by Mrs. the Speaker pro tempore at title of coprésidente of the committee Act them languages Languages . 
unabated question fact currently the objet of a debate appeared them courts . 
bye the moment where til fell arrivera at the phase of them plaidoiries , business arguments développés by Act Court Superior of the Ontario , streets Act cause of the Hôpital Montfort , auront their utilité yeas Act Court fédérale who fingertips at apply prononcer of way at éclaircir series once yeas toutes the application réelle of health part VII of health Act Act them languages Languages . 
commentator you the savez , she serait of series extrême importance yeas define Act responsibility to the government Heritage at the hook of his role of promotion active at the soutien of them minorities of Official Languages anglaise or Speaking . 
i voulais porter at the attention of the Honourable Senator bearer élément important that foreign senators Gauthier and Losier - Cool acclaimed underlined streets their échanges at the topic of them travaux of what committee . 
the senator Beaudoin : 
honourable senators , streets the fond , we souhaitons Act same something . 
if what is contesté , til hope that what arranged rejeté and that til trouvera at Act part VII of health Act Act them languages Languages series value non simply déclaratoire , but also impérative . 
confirms me remind always the fameux v. Act the article 133 , streets lequel series cour inférieure Partnerships said that the usage of the French and the Government English guardian indicatif and non impératif . 
health Court Supreme , streets series decision to 9 at 0 , Partnerships corrigé the tir fell disant that : when Act Constitution parle of way claire and précise , what is impératif . 
we ourselves battons all yeas the same outcome . 
what is contesté , but what is our regime . 
til can make valoir of them arguments very forts yeas prétendre that unabated Act Act them languages Languages has a uniqueness impératif at Act partieVII. 
he tangibly try to make valoir our arguments at Act cour . 
the Honourable Ione Christensen : 
honourable senators , what is fell activist that Canadienne unilingual that I interviens streets the debate Act Act decision to the government ' s Ontario ' not not give subsequently at series recommendation visant at déclarer region bilingue Act city restructurée of Ottawa . 
venant of the coin of the Canada situé the most at the West , I trouve futile the idea same of heed what debate . 
health Capital of the Canada not can that perhaps bilingue . 
the Canada and the bilingualism are synonymes ; they not Cutbacks that a . 
since 1898 , the Yukon has series community francophone very active and fière . 
today today , ses members are représentés by the Association francophone yukonnaise . 
he rereads has series école Speaking and the rate of fréquentation of them programs of immersion fell French streets our system of education is very élevé . 
the foreign Canadians to everywhere are flocked at the Yukon yeas that their children apprennent and partagent unabated grande culture bilingue . 
health issue not relève anguishes of series municipally , anguishes of series province anguishes of series jurisdiction fiscale . 
what is series question of unity . 
health reaction of health province contiguë at celle who account Act more damned population of Canadians francophones is incroyablement insensible . 
what not guardian not necessary . 
Ottawa , our Capital national , should refléter our duality and we cannot pouvons accept nothing to less . 
the Honourable Marcel Prud man : 
honourable senators , he rereads has strokes series entente . 
transport recommendations of health Commission Royal Act them Peoples aboriginal relatively at Act function self autochtone 
passage of the report of the committee of them Peoples aboriginal 
leave rose been granted to revert at them reports of Committee : 
the Senate proceeded at the study of the second report of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Peoples aboriginal ( embauche of staff ) presented at the Senate Committee 15 December 1999 . - ( Le hon. Senator Watt ) . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) move : Adopted of the report . 
( Act motion is adoptée , and the report is passed . ) 
routine payroll , Science and Technology 
Authorized at the committee of examiner the état of the system of health 
the Order of the day appelle : 
resuming the Government debate Act Act motion of the Honourable Senator Kirby , seconded by the Honourable Senator Mercier : 
that the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology authorized authorized at examiner yeas fell make report on état of the system of health at the Canada . 
more particularly , that the Comité authorized authorized at examiner : 
has ) Changes principles fondamentaux Act lesquels is fondé the system public of health at the Canada ; 
b ) Le historic of the system of health at the Canada ; 
c ) Changes systems of health publics streets of other countries ; 
d ) Le system of health at the Canada - pressure and contraintes ; 
e ) Le role of the government federal streets the system of health at the Canada ; 
that the Comité présente his report final at the most later the 14 December 2001 ; and 
that the Comité authorized authorized , by derogation at them rules usuelles , at déposer everything report auprès of the Clerk of the Senate if the Senate not seat not at what moment - là ; and that the report authorized réputé wheel been tabled at Act House of the Senate . - ( 
the Honourable Senator Di Nino ) . 
the Honourable Marjory LeBreton : 
honourable senators , at title of vice - patron of the committee sénatorial Standing of them Affairs payroll , the foreign Science and the Day technology , I voudrais 209 briefly Act motion . 
he not is not indifférent that foreign few derniers mots who uncovered prononcés at the Senate during what millennium portent Act what topic . 
confirms tombe at standpoint appointed , car , at the aube of the nouveau millennium , we demanderons the Authorized to the Senate yeas And the état of them services of health at the Canada and fell make report . 
unabated study apply ombudsman of emergency , and the Senate is particularly well placé yeas réaliser unabated study , if til the compare at them Communes , where the other factors gênent often what type of work . 
honourable senators , commentator all levels other members of the committee , I supports unabated initiative . 
health issue deserves series study sérieuse . 
he rereads has much of ideas false répandues at the topic of them services of health at the Canada . 
we devons make opposite at the nombreuses réalités . 
we devons we interroger Act the role of the government federal and Oceans afford at prendre yeas tribute the system économiquement viable . 
i request respectfully the Authorized to make unabated study . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
there has he ' other honourable who désirent prendre Act parole ? 
the Honourable Michael Kirby : 
honourable senators , I me fell tiendrai at two brèves observations . 
everyone of thanking , at Act light of them debates who acclaimed strokes instead at the Senate Act week dernière Act them costs of the study , I préciserai that the committee not envisage not to dépenser more of 10 40,000 Expenditures of here at the 31 March 2000 . 
ensuite , yeas what who pertains the next fiscal , what not arranged not series study terriblement coûteuse , car we ourselves proposons of make Act plupart of our comparaisons internationales at the moyen of visioconférences who , commentator has avoided the constater the committee of them Banking , fonctionnent extremely well . 
even if the framework of référence is vast , I cannot me attends not at what that unabated study authorized terriblement coûteuse . 
finally , honourable senators , I tiens at introduce series observation Act Act way whose we espérons gérer unabated study . 
i believe that the senator Carstairs , fell parlant of health way whose the committee has treaty the bill to Bill C - 6 , has done remarquer that , rigoureusement parlant , our committee steering apply compose of two Liberals and the one Conservative . 
the Day same manner , when the committee steering has began at établir the framework of référence of unabated study , we awakened asked at the senator Keon of apply join at us . 
the senator Keon has avoided we help at établir the mandate fell question and we took rose to them ideas Act Act way of traiter confirms . 
bye Act first hour , what morning , I him ai wrote that I trouve important that he continues to play a role streets unabated study . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the senator Kirby : 
commentator yeas the bill to Bill C - 6 , we fonctionnerons with a committee steering composed of four persons , authorized levels senators Carstairs and moi - even , the what side - ci , and Oceans senators LeBreton and Keon , the Government another . 
i hope that foreign senators essaieront of us ensure the savoir - make the Government Senator Keon at the surveillance of them two prochaines years that durera unabated study . 
honourable senators , what are là them observations that I voulais make . 
i ai constaté , fell me entretenant with the foreign senators ' Affairs two sides , that unabated study suscite a interest considérable . 
his Honour the Speaker pro tempore : 
you plaît - he , honourable senators , the adopt Act motion ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
routine Foreign 
Authorized at the committee of Extend Act date of the tabling of his report final sur the study of health Modified apportée at the mandate of the Organization of the Traité of the Atlantic North 
the Honourable Peter A . Stollery , pursuant at the notice du9 December 1999 , moved : 
that the Comité conserve them powers nécessaires at Act diffusion of them results of his study contenus streets his report final , and what until at the 31 March 2000 ; and 
that the Comité authorized authorized , nonobstant them practices habituelles , at déposer his report auprès of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that ledit report authorized réputé wheel been tabled at the Senate . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
transport recommendations of health Commission Royal Act them Peoples aboriginal relatively at Act function self 
Authorized donnée at the committee of Extend the tabling of the report final 
the Honourable Landon Pearson , at the name of the senator Watt , pursuant at the notice of the 14 December 1999 , moved : 
that , by derogation at the Order adopted by the Sénatle 24 November 1999 , the Comité sénatorial Standing of them Peoples aboriginal authorized authorized at make series study and at introduce a report Act them recommendations of health Commission Royal Act them Peoples aboriginal ( Document Parliamentary No. 2 / 35 - 508 . ) 
relatively at Act function self autochtone and more particularly , at obtain the standpoint of standpoint of them Peoples aboriginal and the foreign other intéressés Act them questions suivantes : 
2 . them mechanisms nécessaires at the implantation of them nouvelles relations structurelles ; 
3 . them models of self self autochtone nécessaires yeas respond at them needs of them Peoples aboriginal and yeas concorder with them nouvelles relations structurelles ; 
that the committee authorized authorized at déposer his report final at the most later the 16 February 2000 , and that the committee conserve them powers nécessaires at Act diffusion of them results of his study contenus streets his report final , and what until at the 29 February 2000 ; and 
that the committee authorized authorized , nonobstant them practices habituelles , at déposer his report auprès of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that ledit report authorized réputé wheel tabled at the Senate . 
health motion is adoptée . 
the Senate 
the octroi of a status bilingue at Act city of Ottawa - Adoption of health motion 
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier , pursuant at the notice of the 15 December 1999 , moved : 
that , the Government Notices of the Senate to the Canada , Ottawa , health Capital of the Canada should perhaps officially bilingue . 
i hope that what debate continuera of Welfare apolitique . 
streets Act Constitution of what country , these two languages acclaimed equality of Refugee and the privileges . 
unabated motion asks at Act province of the Ontario ' déclarer Act nouvelle quoted the Ottawa officially bilingue . 
the word " cc " - if til apply reporte at a dictionnaire - wants say : 
[ ... ] who émane of series autorité reconnue , dûment sanctionnée , autorisée , [ ... ] 
fell what who me pertains , health nouvelle quoted the Ottawa doit perhaps officially bilingue and analyzed conférer at them two languages Languages of the country ' status of equality , and relever of health jurisdiction provinciale . 
i vais me explain . 
before - night , at the surveillance of a debate , I ai said clearly that royal province of the Ontario apply doit of déclarer bilingue Act Capital national . 
much of between you acclaimed participated at the debate and I you fell thank , car confirms renforce our position . 
Koppel . Shortliffe has the most noté streets his report Act Act restructuring municipale that he serait of the ressort of the council of health municipally of Ottawa - determine Act scope and health nature of them services which uncovered disponibles streets them two languages Languages of the country . 
he not there has nil doubt that series municipally of the Ontario can , by regulation , decide to give few services streets them two languages Languages of the country . 
a settlement municipal can changer very quickly according the mood of the council municipal , what who never confère not series certainty at the fiscal of them two languages Languages . 
i terminerai fell disant that the Senate has always poursuivi the objective of represent them regions of the country and mostly of defend ses minorities . 
what is yeas unabated reason that I am pleased today today to constater that several of between you acclaimed participated at what debate and I hope that you serez nombreux at appuyer Act motion . 
honourable senators , I am born at Ottawa . 
i there ai past blunt ma life . 
i ai of health difficulty at concevoir that royal Capital of mon country not puisse perhaps that unilingual or , yeas perhaps optimiste , not puisse not perhaps bilingue . 
i request at condolences friends of the Senate to appuyer unabated motion . 
the Honourable Christmas A . Kinsella ( cc Deputy of the Opposition ) : 
honourable senators , what is a honour yeas moi of appuyer unabated motion very importante . 
i imagine that til can understand why a senator ' s Opposition and a senator ' health province of the Brunswick - Brunswick repositories appuyer with conviction unabated motion . 
our province is officially bilingue . 
the senator Nolin : 
what is Act Gotcha . 
the senator Kinsella : 
health Gotcha province at the Canada at perhaps officially bilingue . 
the senator Louis Robichaud has been a pioneer puisque he is the author of health first Act Act them languages Languages of our province . 
i dois also souligner the work of the senator Simard , who continues to defend the bilingualism streets our province . 
Robbie , yeas we , Scotians - Brunswickois , he is logical that royal Capital of our country authorized bilingue . 
what is by principle and by duty , and fell activist that Senator of the Brunswick - Brunswick , that I insiste and that I supports unabated motion . 
the Honourable Marcel Prud man : 
honourable senators , everything ceux who familiar ma attest friendship yeas the senator Gauthier savent very well that I cannot pouvais not stay nary . 
i vais therefore me join without équivoque at what that foreign Senator Kinsella and Gauthier acclaimed said . 
nay not that I cannot me sente not at the aise streets the another language official . 
i lobbyist streets unabated language all levels days since that I am arrivé streets the another House and still , if I cannot avais not the senator Rossiter and few other at the opportunity yeas corriger mon English , you verriez that I fell ai still much at learn . 
i me am always considéré commentator the Deputy of the senator Gauthier . 
what guardian series blague that some not appréciaient not , but I cannot ai never strokes shame of say that streets toutes ses concerns , I the appuyais . 
what is him who me has opened them doors , at travers the Canada , the all levels minoritaires who faces occupaient of health survivance of the fact French at the Canada . 
he me has Message all ses contacts , that what authorized fell British - British , fell Alberta and even streets them provinces a little more récalcitrantes . 
honourable senators , he is very easy to diviser yeas apply tribute popular . 
condolences vis - at - vis who me acclaimed connu of the another side savent that I dispel defend series opinion with passion , breaching that authorized the side where I seat . 
i pourrais perhaps very popular auprès of a group of Canadians but , fell same time , dénoncer ceux who never are not to agree with moi . 
what is too easy . 
i the ai fact streets your province , Your Honour , streets them years 1960 , when I ai commitments Act parole appeared them Daughters of Chairperson Eastern Star , who me specialist of thanking rejeté commentator conférencier . 
i étais censé transmettre them bons vows deM. Pearson , who capitalists rentrer at Ottawa . 
rather than the retourner at Quebec and dénoncer celles who me specialist rejeté , I am allé directly chez thin , fell prétendant that I cannot avais not received their message . 
savez - you combien of amies I me am faites chez them Daughters of Chairperson Eastern Star ? 
more often that otherwise , I ai been épinglé yeas condolences opinions political Act to other subjects . 
i cannot ai never chosen Act voie of health facilité , who BNA at dénoncer . 
he rereads fell has who petitioners almost loans at you assassiner fell reason for vos opinions political Act some subjects . 
even at a age avancé commentator the mien , I continues at espérer that I réussirai at fell make changer of other of opinion . 
health half of between eux not apply étaient never intéressés at Act policy . 
health half of between eux apply sentaient very tristes fell reason for the process and not partageaient not them opinions political that we awakened here . 
however , after less of series half - hour of patientes explanations , they veulent now revert yeas see them honourable senators at the work because that they acclaimed seen them Members of health House of them Commons more earlier today today . 
i unis ma Senators at celle of the senator Kinsella and thank our ami , the grandfather champion . 
what not is not easy to perhaps champion fell Ontario , commentator what not the is not streets of other provinces . 
what is Act reason yeas laquelle I brevity the senator Kinsella . 
he not has not afraid of express his standpoint of standpoint . 
i pourrais appoint all levels other , but I vais me abstenir because that I fell oublierais . 
i mentionne the senator Kinsella because that he remembered is prononcé and I the fell thank . 
i him door blunt mon friendship and fell everything time , he me trouvera at ses sides yeas Act good cause , what is - at - say Act cause canadienne , but Act cause canadienne well misunderstood . 
certes , til can parcourir the world fell vantant them mérites of the Canada , but fell rentrant at the country he not tangibly forget them propos that til has referendums . 
i viens everything fair to rentrer of the Pakistan and the other lieux . 
they grab streets the Canada ' Affairs things that foreign Canadians acclaimed of health difficulty at see . 
you not pouvez not you déplacer freely at the outside of course of them country commentator til the fact at the Canada , puis rentrer at the country and refuser of oeuvrer yeas Act democracy . 
what is a country constamment fell voie of réalisation . 
confirms exige of health patience . 
he tangibly sometimes apply garder of chercher vengeance , commentator some of between us the Cutbacks . 
honourable senators , composite of us has a duty . 
we devrions we réengager at the service of the Canada . 
he suffirait yeas confirms that 100 senators prennent share at 10 events each year yeas defend the Canada and explain what that wants say perhaps Quebecer . 
what is what that the senator Gauthier essaie of make and what is also what that I essaie of make , at ma way . 
the Honourable Norman K . Atkins : 
honourable senators , I tiens at congratulate the senator Gauthier yeas dapper motion . 
i trouve that he convient perfectly that the last section sciences at the Paper ait trait at unabated question . 
fell activist that Senator ontarien who never is not bilingue - and I fell am désolé - , I ose espérer that unabated motion arranged adoptée at the unanimously . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the Honourable Bill Rompkey : 
honourable senators , I interviens at propos of unabated motion , and confirms , yeas two grandes reasons . 
premièrement , I tiens at appuyer the senator Gauthier . 
the senator Gauthier and moi awakened been élus all sides fell 1972 . 
i tiens simply at appuyer mon colleague , the last Parliamentary of health promotion 1972 . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , I am désolé of you interrupt , but he is 18 hours . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I move the no not see the hour . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
Êtes - you to agree , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Rompkey : 
i cannot ai not the intent of retenir the Senate , but I voudrais say few mots . 
i souhaiter saluting the senator Gauthier yeas the courage staff and political that he has montré today today . 
if I ai asked at prendre Act parole , what is also at Act subsequently of them observations formulées by the senator Fraser at series another opportunity and elsewhere . 
she has déclaré that royal question not intéressait not exclusively them francophones , that she revêtait rather a interest attain . 
fell activist that Newfoundland - Neuvien , I fais part of a group of Canadians nouvellement arrivés , puisque we cannot awakened fact our entrée streets Act Confederation canadienne that fell 1949 . 
fell activist that anglophones unilingues , we awakened owed make the learning of the Canada . 
we analyzed still nombreux at not not parler the French . 
fell fact , some of between us not parlent same not the English if well that confirms . 
we parlons Act language of Shakespeare . 
i takers the senator Cochrane who me fact of them remontrances . 
i voudrais simply say that Act mon island and at the Labrador , we parlons series language who has seen the day at the époque of Shakespeare , at the XVIe century , and who never gave not much évolué since . 
we cannot cherchons not at us justify . 
what are them other who acclaimed changed Act language anglaise , not we . 
the status linguistic of Ottawa not is affair anguishes of francophones , anguishes of anglophones . 
what is series affair national . 
i am fell favour of series Capital bilingue , car Ottawa is Act Capital of them residents of the Labrador . 
what is Act Capital of all levels Canadians . Et , commentator telle , she should apply make the reflet of the Canada . 
unabated provision is importante . 
health Capital where we vivons and travaillons all , should refléter the character bilingue of the country and health culture whose we analyzed if fiers . 
what is why I supports unabated motion , honourable senators . 
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn : 
honourable senators , I cannot devrais not laisser mood unabated opportunity without join ma Senators at celle of condolences colleagues on them two sides of health House yeas appuyer Act motion of mon vieil ami the senator Jean - Robert Gauthier . 
the senator Gauthier has been overburdened Act earth yeas intervene streets a moment similar . 
since them nombreuses years that I the organize , he remembered is always done the défenseur of the equity streets unabated city , streets unabated province and streets everything the country . 
bye a moment commentator gerrymandering - ci , where we analyzed witnesses from a état of mind incompréhensible streets Act Capital of health province , he is very pleased that we puissions compter Act series human rose Act strength of character and health passion of the senator Gauthier . 
he has the nouveau commitments Act tête of them forces of the canadianisme , the Government equity and the Government equality streets what file . 
he is very true that royal situation linguistic of Ottawa is series question of interest attain . 
he is impossible to apply tribute streets something part of the Canada that what authorized without savoir that some of them pionniers them more inspirants , also loin that you puissiez you tribute at the West , at the North or at the East , étaient of them people who there acclaimed fact rayonner Act language and health culture françaises . 
we analyzed very fiers of these pionniers fell Alberta but , commentator the souligne mon ami the senator Prud man , business people luttent continuellement yeas conserver their culture . 
more we ourselves éloignons of the centre , more Act lutte devient difficult . 
unabated question constitue a champ of bataille . 
i am fière of appuyer mon colleague , the senator Gauthier , based unabated question . 
the foreign citizens of Saint - Paul , the Lac Position Biche , the Morinville and deSt. Albert suivent what who faces proceeded at the Parliament Act unabated question , afin of savoir apply they are always the foreign Canadians at share entière . 
well course that they the are ! 
senator Gauthier , I you thank . 
bye all levels honourable senators , I dis that what is a grandfather moment at the Senate when we pouvons all appuyer series question also fondamentale that celle - ci yeas our country . 
the foreign Senators : 
hear ! 
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs : 
honourable senators , fell 1905 , after Act birth of his ten - seventeenth child , ma grandfather - mother , Sophie Leblanc Martel , has quitté his petit village of fishermen of the Cape - Cape yeas aller apply établir at Boston , at the Massachusetts . 
when she is arrival là - bas , she has said at ses children that they not devaient more parler French , that they vivaient désormais streets a country anglophone and that they devaient learn at parler English . 
ma mother , ten - eighth child of health family and health cadette , is Manitoulin two years later later . 
she never gave never heard ma grandfather - mother parler French , except when celle - ci récitait ses prières . 
i think that ma grandfather - mother serait very contente of savoir that ses grandchildren - child , the Government less some , are incomes at the Canada , streets a country bilingue . 
i think that she serait of agreement yeas that royal city of Ottawa , health Capital of what country , authorized bilingue . 
til me has learned at penser that I étais irlandaise , the one side , and américaine , the Government another , until at the day where ma mother is arrival at Act maison with a morceau of vitrail very former , décoré of series fleur of lys . 
what morceau of vitrail apply trouve now streets mon office , streets the Édifice of the East . 
after the wheel nettoyé , ma mother the has overburdened Act a support , streets the salon . 
she has ensuite announced at mon father that ses children not étaient not only Irish but that they étaient also Canadians French . 
the Honourable Francis William Mahovlich : 
honourable senators , fell 1972 , when the senator Rompkey and the senator Gauthier acclaimed been nommés , I étais fell Russia with series team of hockey who guardian bilingue . 
we awakened remporté a very gros success , and 1972 has been series very good year . 
i voulais only consigned that I am the agreement with what that the senator Rompkey has said . 
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud : 
honourable senators , I query signifier mon appui at unabated motion of the senator Gauthier . 
i pensais that you tiendriez yeas acquis that I appuierais unabated motion . 
well course that I the fais . 
til could often heed yeas acquis - I think that much of people tiennent yeas acquis - that royal Capital national apply doit of Welfare bilingue . 
what is often series mistake that we cynicism when we analyzed fell situation minoritaire : we tenons of them things yeas acquises . 
the fact that we ayons at déposer series motion yeas ask that royal region of health Capital national revête what uniqueness bilingue illustre well that we devons always perhaps vigilants . 
we devons encourage foreign people at adhere them two languages Languages of the country . 
what is everything at fact without condition and I supports sincèrement unabated motion . 
the Honourable Marie - P . 
honourable senators , we constatons today today damned place on Senate occupies streets our country . 
commentator the disaient if well several of our colleagues , he is everything at fact approprié of clore the year 1999 , with pride , based series motion of principle unanimous . 
the Senate to the Canada represents toutes them minorities and toutes them professions , blunt Act diversity culturelle and health richesse of our country . 
i ai exprimé Tuesday last ma surprise appeared the fact that til not voulait not reconnaître the status bilingue of health Capital of the Canada . 
few days later later , at the service of the country , fell activist that legislators representatives them Canadians , we awakened avoided we rallier and crier of series same Senators , the one same heart and the genus same pride . 
toutes them teams who we appuient deserve our congratulations . 
the Honourable Louis J . Robichaud : 
honourable senators , autant I ai been déçu , almost insulted , when the government ' s Ontario has déterminé that royal Capital national not serait can - perhaps not bilingue , autant I me réjouissais everything at the hour of hear them propos of condolences colleagues on Senate which acclaimed been offensés because that til refuses to déclarer officially bilingue Act nouvelle city of Ottawa . 
the senator Frank Mahovlich has said everything at the hour that fell 1972 , a événement of importance apply is produced at the country and at Moscou ; I there étais also . 
transport Canadians acclaimed Robbie montré their supremacy streets a field who their is cher , the hockey . 
a another field also we is cher , the bilingualism . 
we voudrions tellement cesser them struggles chez we . 
we voudrions tellement not not wheel at lutter yeas that the bilingualism authorized officially recognized . 
i cannot avais not the intent of say whereupon that what authorized . 
i étais absolument course that royal motion of the senator Jean - Robert Gauthier , serait adoptée at the unanimously . 
commentator til the has said , I am the one of them derniers streets what millennium at me express . 
i supports very clearly the bilingualism . 
the Honourable Aurélien Gill : 
his Honour the Speaker : 
if nil another senator not widow prendre Act parole , I vais procéder . 
you plaît - he ' adopt Act motion , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
the senator Kinsella : 
i request the consent of them honourable senators yeas that the countdown - rendu indique that royal motion has been adoptée at the unanimously . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
is - what the agreement , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
transport v9ux of Christmas 
the Honourable Mabel A . DeWare : 
bye the name of the Opposition official , I you thank , Your Honour , analyzed that foreign greffiers at the Bureau and Oceans pages yeas the soutien that you we prostituted apporté streets unabated merveilleuse institution where we travaillons . 
i souhaite at Your Honour and at them honourable senators ' mood of joyeuses fêtes and I you offers our meilleurs v9ux at the opportunity to the nouveau millennium . 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , I me joins at ma colleague the fell opposite yeas you souhaiter at all of joyeuses fêtes and you offer condolences meilleurs v9ux yeas the XXle century . 
i thank all and composite yeas their cooperation , the soutien and Oceans bons services that they acclaimed apportés at our country at the Breast of unabated institution . 
adjournment 
leave rose been granted to revert at them notice of Motion to the government : 
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) : 
honourable senators , with Act leave of the Senate and nonobstant the alinéa 58 ( 1 ) 1:30 ) the Government Rules , I move : 
that , when the Senate apply adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until at the Tuesday 8 February 2000 , at 14 hours . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
health leave is - she granted , honourable senators ? 
the foreign Senators : 
the agreement . 
his Honour the Speaker : 
honourable senators , before the allegiances Act motion at them Senators , I tiens moi also at thank all levels honourable senators and foremost the staff , the fact all levels employees of the Senate , yeas their excellent soutien . 
i souhaite at all a very Joyeux Christmas and series very Bonne Année . 
we vivons series journée historic , health dernière postponement of the year 1999 , health dernière postponement of what millennium . 
i offers at all condolences meilleurs v9ux yeas the Insignia 2000 . 
i regret that the judge fell Opposition ait of the partir , car we awakened sat a little more long that prévu , but I hope you retrouver all streets condolences appartements . 
( Act motion is adoptée . ) 
( the Senate apply ajourne at the Tuesday 8 February 2000 , at 14 hours . ) 
